Content platforms (e.g., newspapers, magazines) post several stories daily on their dedicated social media pages and promote some of them using targeted content advertising (TCA). Posting stories enables content platforms to grow their social media audiences and generate digital advertising revenue from the impressions channeled through social media posts' link clicks. However, optimal scheduling of social media posts and TCA is formidable, requiring content platforms to determine what to post; when to post; and whether, when, and how much to spend on TCA to maximize profits. Social media managers lament this complexity, and academic literature offers little guidance. Consequently, the authors draw from literature on circadian rhythms in information processing capabilities to build a novel theoretical framework on social media content scheduling and explain how scheduling attributes (i.e., time of day, content type, and TCA) affect the link clicks metric. They test their hypotheses using a model estimated on 366 days of Facebook post data from a top 50 U.S. newspaper. Subsequently, they build an algorithm that allows social media managers to optimally plan social media content schedules and maximize gross profits. Applying the algorithm to a holdout sample, the authors demonstrate a potential increase in gross profits by at least 8%.
With the emergence of content-driven social commerce, designing marketing content that better stimulates consumer purchase behaviors has become increasingly essential. However, it remains unclear what and how linguistic features of marketing content in emerging social commerce influence consumer purchase behaviors. Drawing on speech act theory, this paper proposes a multi-level research model to conceptualize the linguistic features of content from the aspects of word usage (micro level), within-content argument development (macro level), and between-content linguistic mimicry (meta level), and investigate their impact on consumer purchase behaviors. With a unique dataset that includes 44,256 textual posts from JD WeChat shopping circle (a content -driven social commerce platform), this paper combines text mining methods with a series of regression analyses to test the research model. The empirical analyses find that the number of customers who make a purchase increases 1) at the micro-level due to self-referencing and detailing, 2) at the macro-level due to argument structuring, and 3) at the meta-level due to linguistic style matching, while linguistic content matching nega-tively affects the number of customers. These findings reveal how content creators strategically use language to design marketing content that encourages consumer purchase behaviors in emerging social commerce. This study has important theoretical contributions and practical implications.
Logos serve a fundamental role as the visual figureheads of brands. Yet, because of the difficulty of using unstructured image data, prior research on logo design has largely been limited to nonquantitative studies. In this work, we explore the interplay between logo design and brand identity creation from a data-driven perspective. We develop both a novel logo feature extraction algorithm that uses modern image processing tools to decompose pixel-level image data into meaningful features and a multiview representation learning framework that links these visual features to textual descriptions, consumer ratings of brand personality, and other high-level tags describing firms. We apply this framework to a unique data set of brands to understand which brands use which logo features and how consumers evaluate these brands' personalities. Moreover, we show that manipulating the model's learned representations through what we term brand arithmetic yields new brand identities and can help with ideation. Finally, through an application to fast-food branding, we show how our model can be used as a decision support tool for suggesting typical logo features for a brand and for predicting consumers' reactions to new brands or rebranding efforts.
Entrepreneurial orientation (EO) and market orientation (MO) have received substantial conceptual and empirical attention in the marketing and management literature and both orientations have consistently been linked to stronger financial performance. Yet the way in which market-oriented firms seek to achieve superior rents is substantively different from that of entrepreneurially oriented firms which could lead to differential impacts of EO and MO on firm risk. In this study, the authors employ a text mining technique to assess firms' EO and MO and examine the impact of these two strategic orientations on shareholder risk outcomes. The results show that while EO increases idiosyncratic risk, MO decreases it. However, only EO decreases systematic risk. Overall, the results of this study demonstrate that a firm's decisions regarding strategic orientation should be examined in light of both likely risks and returns in order to make appropriate resource allocation decisions. (C) 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved,
This study employed a content analysis of the creative strategies present in the social media content shared by a sample of top brands. The results reveal which social media channels are being used, which creative strategies/appeals are being used, and how these channels and strategies relate to consumer engagement in branded social media. Past research has suggested that brands should focus on maintaining a social presence across social channels with content that is fresh and frequent and includes incentives for consumer participation (Ling et al., 2004). This study confirmed the importance of frequent updates and incentives for participation. In addition, several creative strategies were associated with customer engagement, specifically experiential, image, and exclusivity messages. Despite the value of these creative approaches, most branded social content can be categorized as functional. (C) 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
User-generated content provides many opportunities for managers and researchers, but insights are hindered by a lack of consensus on how to extract brand-relevant valence and volume. Marketing studies use different sentiment extraction tools (SETs) based on social media volume, top-down language dictionaries and bottom-up machine learning approaches. This paper compares the explanatory and forecasting power of these methods over several years for daily customer mindset metrics obtained from survey data. For 48 brands in diverse industries, vector autoregressive models show that volume metrics explain the most for brand awareness and purchase intent, while bottom-up SETs excel at explaining brand impression, satisfaction and recommendation. Systematic differences yield contingent advice: the most nuanced version of bottom-up SETs (SVM with Neutral) performs best for the search goods for all consumer mind-set metrics but Purchase Intent for which Volume metrics work best. For experienced goods, Volume outperforms SVM with neutral. As processing time and costs increase when moving from volume to top-down to bottom-up sentiment extraction tools, these conditional findings can help managers decide when more detailed analytics are worth the investment. (C) 2020 Direct Marketing Educational Foundation, Inc. dba Marketing EDGE.
Many firms introduce both business-to-business service innovations (B2B-SIs) and business-to-consumer service innovations (B2C-SIs) and need to better allocate their resources. However, they are unsure about B2B-Sls' effects on firm value or risk, especially relative to those of B2C-SIs. The authors address this problem by developing hypotheses that relate the number of B2B-Sls and B2C-Sls to firm value and firm risk together with the moderators (the number of product innovations and customer-focus innovations). To test the hypotheses, the authors develop and estimate a model using unique panel data of 2,263 Sls across 15 industries over eight years assembled from multiple data sources and controlling for firm- and market-specific factors, heterogeneity, and endogeneity. They analyze innovation announcements using natural language processing. The results show that B2B-SIs have a positive effect on firm value and an insignificant influence on firm risk. Importantly, the effect of a B2B-SI on firm value is significantly greater than that of a B2C-SI. Unlike B2C-SIs, the effect of B2B-SIs on firm value is greater when the firm has more product innovations. Surprisingly, unlike B2C-SIs, the effect of B2B-SIs on firm value is less positive when the SIs emphasize customers. These findings offer important insights about the relative value of B2B-SIs.
Celebrity endorsement has been prevalent as an advertising strategy, and many advertisers invest enormous amounts of money into celebrity endorsements. While previous studies have found that the success and failure of celebrity endorsements are related to their attractiveness, expertise, and trustworthiness, it is not known how and which sources of celebrity endorsements can explain firm value, which is a very important factor for firm sustainability. By text mining and sentiment analysis, this research found that increasing the positive source of the celebrity's attractiveness and expertise has a positive impact on firm value, whereas the loss of the celebrity's trustworthiness severely deteriorates firm value. Once a celebrity has lost his/her trustworthiness, the negative impact is almost never recovered, given that the negative interaction effect between the positive impact of celebrity expertise and the loss of his/her trustworthiness is over seven times greater than the positive effects from his/her expertise.
Purpose - Travel websites allow tourists to share their thoughts, beliefs and experiences regarding various travel destinations. In this paper, the researchers demonstrated an approach for destination marketing organisations to explore online tourist-generated content and understand tourists' perceptions of the destination image (DI). Specifically, the researchers initiated an investigation examining how the destination image of Macau changed during the period of 2014-2018 based on user-generated content on travel websites. Design/methodology/approach - Web crawlers developed by Python were employed to collect tourists' reviews from both Ctrip and TripAdvisor regarding the theme of Macau attraction. A total of 51,191 reviews (41,352 from Ctrip and 9,839 from TripAdvisor) were collected and analysed using the text-mining technique. Findings - The results reveal that the frequency of casino-related words decreased in reviews by both international and mainland Chinese tourists. Additionally, international and mainland Chinese tourists perceive the DI of Macau differently. Mainland Chinese tourists are more sensitive to new attractions, while international tourists are not. The study also shows that there are differences between the government-projected DI and the tourist-perceived DI. Only the City of Culture and A World Centre of Tourism and Leisure have built recognition with tourists. Originality/value - Given the easy accessibility of online information from various sources, it is important for destination marketing organisations to analyse and monitor different DI perspectives and adjust their branding strategies for greater effectiveness. This study uncovered the online DI of Macau by using text mining and content analysis of two of the largest travel websites. By analysing and comparing the differences and relationships among the frequently used words of tourist-generated content on these websites, the researchers revealed some interesting findings with important marketing implications.
Internet recommender systems are popular in contexts that include heterogeneous consumers and numerous products. In such contexts, product features that adequately describe all the products are often not readily available. Content-based systems therefore rely on user-generated content such as product reviews or textual product tags to make recommendations. In this paper, we develop a novel covariate-guided, heterogeneous supervised topic model that uses product covariates, user ratings, and product tags to succinctly characterize products in terms of latent topics and specifies consumer preferences via these topics. Recommendation contexts also generate big-data problems stemming from data volume, variety, and veracity, as in our setting, which includes massive textual and numerical data. We therefore develop a novel stochastic variational Bayesian framework to achieve fast, scalable, and accurate estimation in such big-data settings and apply it to a MovieLens data set of movie ratings and semantic tags. We show that our model yields interesting insights about movie preferences and makes much better predictions than a benchmark model that uses only product covariates. We show how our model can be used to target recommendations to particular users and illustrate its use in generating personalized search rankings of relevant products. Data are available at https://doi.org/10.1287/mksc.2018.1113.
User-generated content about brands is an important source of big data that can be transformed into valuable information. A huge number of items are reviewed and rated by consumers on a daily basis, and managers have a keen interest in real-time monitoring of this information to improve decision-making. The main challenge is to mine reliable textual consumer opinions, and automatically use them to rate the best products or brands. We propose a framework to automatically analyse these reviews, transforming negative and positive user opinions in a quantitative score. Sentiment analysis was employed to analyse online reviews on Amazon. The Fake Review Detection Framework-FRDF- detects and removes fake reviews using Natural Language Processing technology. The FRDF was tested on reviews of products from high-tech industries. Brands were rated according to consumer sentiment. The findings demonstrate that brand managers and consumers would find this tool useful, in combination with the 5-Star score, for more comprehensive decision-making. For instance, the FRDF ranks the best products by price alongside their respective sentiment value and the 5-Star score.
Volatility is an important metric of financial performance, indicating uncertainty or risk. So, predicting and managing volatility is of interest to both company managers and investors. This study investigates whether volatility in user-generated content (UGC) can spill over to volatility in stock returns and vice versa. Sources for user-generated content include tweets, blog posts, and Google searches. The authors test the presence of these spillover effects by a multivariate GARCH model. Further, the authors use multivariate regressions to reveal which type of company-related events increase volatility in user-generated content. Results for two studies in different markets show significant volatility spillovers between the growth rates of user-generated content and stock returns. Further, specific marketing events drive the volatility in user-generated content. In particular, new product launches significantly increase the volatility in the growth rates of user-generated content, which in turn can spill over to volatility in stock returns. Moreover, the spillover effects differ in sign depending on the valence of the user-generated content in Twitter. The authors discuss the managerial implications.
Television viewers are increasingly engaging in media-multitasking while watching programming. One prevalent multiscreen activity is the simultaneous consumption of television alongside social media chatter about the programming, an activity referred to as social TV. Although online interactions with programming can result in a more engaged and committed audience, social TV activities may distract media multi-taskers from advertisements. These competing outcomes of social TV raise the question: are programs with high online social TV activity, so called social shows, good for advertisers? In this research, we empirically examine this question by exploring the relationship among television advertising, social TV, online traffic, and online sales. Specifically, we investigate how the volume of program-related online chatter is related to online shopping behavior at retailers that advertise during the programs. We find that advertisements that air in programs with more social TV activity see increased ad responsiveness in terms of subsequent online shopping behavior. This result varies with the mood of the advertisement, with more affective advertisements-in particular, funny and emotional advertisements-seeing the largest increases in online shopping activity. Our results shed light on how advertisers can encourage online shopping activity on their websites in the age of multiscreen consumers.
Purpose This paper aims to develop a novel and generalizable machine-learning based method of measuring established marketing constructs through passive analysis of consumer-generated textual data. The authors term this method scale-directed text analysis. Design/methodology/approach The method first develops a dictionary of words related to specific dimensions of a construct that is used to assess textual data from any source for a specific meaning. The method explicitly recognizes both specific words and the strength of their underlying sentiment. Findings Results calculated using this new approach are statistically equivalent to responses to traditional marketing scale items. These results demonstrate the validity of the authors' methodology and show its potential to complement traditional survey approaches to assessing marketing constructs. Originality/value Scale-directed text analysis goes beyond traditional methods of conducting simple sentiment analysis and word frequency or percentage counts. It combines the richness of traditional textual and sentiment analysis with the theoretical structure and analytical rigor provided by traditional marketing scales, all in an automatic process.
Social media sites have created a reverberating “echoverse” for brand communication, forming complex feedback loops (“echoes”) between the “universe” of corporate communications, news media, and user-generated social media. To understand these feedback loops, the authors process longitudinal, unstructured data using computational linguistics techniques and analyze them using econometric methods. By assembling one of the most comprehensive data sets in the brand communications literature with corporate communications, news stories, social media, and business outcomes, the authors document the echoverse (i.e., feedback loops between all of these sources). Furthermore, the echoverse has changed as online word of mouth has become prevalent. Over time, online word of mouth has fallen into a negativity spiral, with negative messages leading to greater volume, and firms are adjusting their communications strategies in response. The nature of brand communications has been transformed by online technology as corporate communications move increasingly from one to many (e.g., advertising) to one to one (e.g., Twitter) while consumer word of mouth moves from one to one (e.g., conversations) to one to many (e.g., social media). The results indicate that companies benefit from using social media (e.g., Twitter) for personalized customer responses, although there is still a role for traditional brand communications (e.g., press releases, advertising). The evolving echoverse requires managers to rethink brand communication strategies, with online communications becoming increasingly central.
Advances in the availability and sophistication of software to facilitate the analysis of secondary data have contributed toward the growth of textual analysis. 10-K reports are a particularly salient source of insight into an array of issues in accounting and finance research yet remain underutilized in marketing. Therefore, the purpose of this article is to offer a rationale for such analysis and a method that can be applied in B2B marketing. We draw on a strong tradition of textual analysis in finance to outline a method of text mining 10-K reports. We then discuss the downloading of raw texts, parsing raw text files and linking 10-Ks to various dependent measures. We provide links for downloading parsed 10-K files and suggest software for textual analysis. The framework offers B2B marketers a rich alternative to primary data and proprietary datasets. Ongoing advances in AI-enabled NLP text analysis further increase the future value of the approach for B2B marketers.
The purpose of this research is to find influential factors on electronic word-of-mouth effectiveness for e-retailers in Twitter social media, applying data mining and text mining techniques and through R programming language. The relationship between using hashtag, mention, media and link in the tweet content, length of the content, the time of being posted and the number of followers and followings with the influence of e-WOM is analysed. 48,129 tweets about two of the most famous American e-retailers, Amazon and eBay, are used as samples; results show a strong relationship between the number of followers, followings, the length of the content and the effectiveness of e-WOM and weaker relevance between having media and mention with e-WOM effectiveness on Twitter. Findings of this paper would help e-retailing marketers and managers to know their influential customers in social media channels for viral marketing purpose and advertising campaigns.
Purpose - Complex decision-making is often supported not by single messages but by multichannel communication packages that need to be evaluated in their own right. The purpose of this paper is to present a new analytic approach to this package evaluation task combining textual analysis, functional analysis ( FA) and media synchronicity theory. Design/methodology/approach - The authors combine textual analysis, FA and media synchronicity and demonstrate this in a single case analysis of a multichannel communication package offering mortgage information. Findings - When applied to a mortgage communication package for consumers, the evaluation reveals significant problems concerning the contents and timing of mortgage information and the channels chosen to convey it. Research limitations/implications - This paper outlines a new direction for evaluating multichannel consumer information, in that it does not focus on user channel preferences but on channel requirements stemming from the communicative task to be performed. Practical implications - This paper enables designers to optimize the design of multichannel communication packages and its individual components to support customer's decision-making processes with regards to complex products. Social implications - Improving information to guide complex decision-making processes leads to better informed consumers. Originality/value - Research into effective multichannel communication within marketing is in its infancy. This paper offers a new perspective by focusing on channel requirements stemming from the communicative task rather than consumers' channel preferences.
The rapid growth of social media in the last decades led e-commerce into a new era of value co-creation between the seller and the consumer. Since there is no contact with the product, people have to rely on the description of the seller, knowing that sometimes it may be biased and not entirely true. Therefore, review systems emerged to provide more trustworthy sources of information, since customer opinions may be less biased. However, the need to control the consumers' opinion increased once sellers realized the importance of reviews and their direct impact on sales. One of the methods often used was to offer customers a specific product in exchange for an honest review. Yet, these incentivized reviews bias results and skew the overall rating of the products. The current study uses a data mining approach to predict whether or not a new review published was incentivized based on several review features such as the overall rating, the helpfulness rate, and the review length, among others. Additionally, the model was enriched with sentiment score features of the reviews computed through the VADER algorithm. The results provide an in-depth understanding of the phenomenon by identifying the most relevant features which enable to differentiate an incentivized from a non-incentivized review, thus providing users and companies with a simple set of rules to identify reviews that are biased without any disclaimer. Such rules include the length of a review, its helpfulness rate, and the overall sentiment polarity score.
Purpose This paper aims to investigate customers' experiences with Airbnb by text-mining customer reviews posted on the platform and comparing the extracted topics from online reviews between Airbnb and the traditional hotel industry using topic modeling. Design/methodology/approach This research uses text-mining approaches, including content analysis and topic modeling (latent Dirichlet allocation method), to examine 1,026,988 Airbnb guest reviews of 50,933 listings in seven cities in the USA. Findings The content analysis shows that negative reviews are more authentic and credible than positive reviews on Airbnb and that the occurrence of social words is positively related to positive emotion in reviews, but negatively related to negative emotion in reviews. A comparison of reviews on Airbnb and hotel reviews shows unique topics on Airbnb, namely, late check-in, patio and deck view, food in kitchen, help from host, door lock/key, sleep/bed condition and host response. Research limitations/implications - The topic modeling result suggests that Airbnb guests want to get to know and connect with the local community; thus, help from hosts on ways they can authentically experience the local community would be beneficial. In addition, the results suggest that customers emphasize their interaction with hosts; thus, to improve customer satisfaction, Airbnb hosts should interact with guests and respond to guests' inquiries quickly. Practical implications - Hotel managers should design marketing programs that fulfill customers' desire for authentic and local experiences. The results also suggest that peer-to-peer accommodation platforms should improve online review systems to facilitate authentic reviews and help guests have a smooth check-in process. Originality/value This study is one of the first to examine consumer reviews in detail in the sharing economy and compare topics from consumer reviews between Airbnb and hotels.
The authors test five theoretically derived hypotheses about what drives video ad sharing across multiple social media platforms. Two independent field studies test these hypotheses using 11 emotions and over 60 ad characteristics. The results are consistent with theory and robust across studies. Information-focused content has a significantly negative effect on sharing, except in risky contexts. Positive emotions of amusement, excitement, inspiration, and warmth positively affect sharing. Various drama elements such as surprise, plot, and characters, including babies, animals, and celebrities arouse emotions. Prominent (early vs. late, long vs. short duration, persistent vs. pulsing) placement of brand names hurts sharing. Emotional ads are shared more on general platforms (Facebook, Google+, Twitter) than on LinkedIn, and the reverse holds for informational ads. Sharing is also greatest when ad length is moderate (1.2 to 1.7 minutes). Contrary to these findings, ads use information more than emotions, celebrities more than babies or animals, prominent brand placement, little surprise, and very short or very long ads. A third study shows that the identified drivers predict sharing accurately in an entirely independent sample.
This article examines market scoping for early-stage technologies, a fundamental yet underexplored marketing activity. Market scoping refers to managerial activities directed at the identification of market spaces for early-stage technologies. This discovery-oriented research aimed at theory development draws on an extensive, multiyear database of email trails and archival records detailing market-scoping efforts for early-stage technologies emerging from a global research university. From this longitudinal database, the authors provide an in-depth examination of managers' market space decisions and advance an initial theory of market scoping. They isolate managers' market-scoping mindse-which manifests as market ambiguity avoidance or acceptanceas-a key explanatory construct shaping market space decisions and outcomes. Market ambiguity avoidance results in managers' downstream orientation toward end users; this mindset, counterintuitively, may lead to technology commercialization failure. In contrast, market ambiguity acceptance results in managers' upstream orientation; this mindset directs attention away from end users but helps uncover indirect paths to viable market spaces. This article lays the groundwork for advancing marketing research in the context of early-stage technology commercialization.
User-generated content on social media platforms and product search engines is changing the way consumers shop for goods online. However, current product search engines fail to effectively leverage information created across diverse social media platforms. Moreover, current ranking algorithms in these product search engines tend to induce consumers to focus on one single product characteristic dimension (e.g., price, star rating). This approach largely ignores consumers' multidimensional preferences for products. In this paper, we propose to generate a ranking system that recommends products that provide, on average, the best value for the consumer's money. The key idea is that products that provide a higher surplus should be ranked higher on the screen in response to consumer queries. We use a unique data set of U.S. hotel reservations made over a three-month period through Travelocity, which we supplement with data from various social media sources using techniques from text mining, image classification, social geotagging, human annotations, and geomapping. We propose a random coefficient hybrid structural model, taking into consideration the two sources of consumer heterogeneity the different travel occasions and different hotel characteristics introduce. Based on the estimates from the model, we infer the economic impact of various location and service characteristics of hotels. We then propose a new hotel ranking system based on the average utility gain a consumer receives from staying in a particular hotel. By doing so, we can provide customers with the best-value hotels early on. Our user studies, using ranking comparisons from several thousand users, validate the superiority of our ranking system relative to existing systems on several travel search engines. On a broader note, this paper illustrates how social media can be mined and incorporated into a demand estimation model in order to generate a new ranking system in product search engines. We thus highlight the tight linkages between user behavior on social media and search engines. Our interdisciplinary approach provides several insights for using machine learning techniques in economics and marketing research.
Adopting an institutional theoretic framework, this article examines the evolution and competitive dynamics of markets composed of multiple practices, beliefs, and rule systems. The 30-year historical analysis of the U.S. yoga market illustrates the coexistence of spirituality, medical, fitness, and commercial logics. Using data gathered through archival sources, netnography, in-depth interviews, and participant observations, the authors link shifting emphases on institutional logics and their sustenance to institutional entrepreneurs' accumulation and transmission of cultural capital, strategies to legitimize plural logics, distinct branding practices, and contestations among the pervading logics. The study offers a managerial framework for managing conflicting demands of logics, conveying brand legitimacy, and creating a coherent brand identity in plural logic markets; in addition, it develops a theoretical account of links between institutional logics, competitive dynamics, and market evolution.
User-generated content has become ubiquitous and very influential in the marketplace. Increasingly, this content is generated on smartphones rather than personal computers (PCs). This article argues that because of its physically constrained nature, smartphone (vs. PC) use leads consumers to generate briefer content, which encourages them to focus on the overall gist of their experiences. This focus on gist, in turn, tends to manifest as reviews that emphasize the emotional aspects of an experience in lieu of more specific details. Across five studies-two field studies and three controlled experiments-the authors use natural language processing tools and human assessments to analyze the linguistic characteristics of user-generated content. The findings support the thesis that smartphone use results in the creation of content that is less specific and privileges affect-especially positive affect-relative to PC-generated content. The findings also show that differences in emotional content are driven by the tendency to generate briefer content on smartphones rather than user self-selection, differences in topical content, or timing of writing. Implications for research and practice are discussed.
Nowadays, the multidimensional rating systems are increasingly popular in practice to help consumers evaluate multiattribute products or services. This study aims to examine the helpfulness and economic impact of multidimensional rating systems and the moderating effect of product type (ordinary, premium) from the perspective of product line. To identify the different effects of different product characteristics on consumers' behavior, multidimensional ratings and textual reviews are classified into two different sets according to the product attributes (functional, hedonic). Besides, the effects of review valence are considered simultaneously. Econometric analysis and text mining are conducted on the real data from , a leading Chinese automobile rating platform. Results show that (a) in terms of perceived helpfulness, reviews with positive functional ratings or with negative hedonic ratings are perceived more helpful for ordinary product, whereas reviews with positive hedonic ratings are perceived more helpful for premium product. (b) Regarding product sales, the impacts of functional and hedonic ratings on product sales are inverted U-shape. Furthermore, for ordinary product, variance of functional ratings has a negative effect on product sales, whereas hedonic ratings variance has an opposite impact. Surprisingly, ordinary product consumers tend to pay more attention to the negative hedonic reviews, whereas premium product consumers concentrate more on the negative functional reviews. In summary, various influences of multidimensional reviews and ratings across product type on review helpfulness and product sales are deeply explored in this study, suggesting that firms' online marketing strategies should be contingent on product type and characteristics.
This study examines whether user-generated content (UGC) is related to stock market performance, which metric of UGC has the strongest relationship, and what the dynamics of the relationship are. We aggregate UGC from multiple websites over a four-year period across 6 markets and 15 firms. We derive multiple metrics of UGC and use multivariate time-series models to assess the relationship between UGC and stock market performance. Volume of chatter significantly leads abnormal returns by a few days (supported by Granger causality tests). Of all the metrics of UGC, volume of chatter has the strongest positive effect on abnormal returns and trading volume. The effect of negative and positive metrics of UGC on abnormal returns is asymmetric. Whereas negative UGC has a significant negative effect on abnormal returns with a short “wear-in” and long “wear-out,” positive UGC has no significant effect on these metrics. The volume of chatter and negative chatter have a significant positive effect on trading volume. Idiosyncratic risk increases significantly with negative information in UGC. Positive information does not have much influence on the risk of the firm. An increase in off-line advertising significantly increases the volume of chatter and decreases negative chatter. These results have important implications for managers and investors.
Deciphering consumers' sentiment expressions from big data (e.g., online reviews) has become a managerial priority to monitor product and service evaluations. However, sentiment analysis, the process of automatically distilling sentiment from text, provides little insight regarding the language granularities beyond the use of positive and negative words. Drawing on speech act theory, this study provides a fine-grained analysis of the implicit and explicit language used by consumers to express sentiment in text. An empirical text-mining study using more than 45,000 consumer reviews demonstrates the differential impacts of activation levels (e.g., tentative language), implicit sentiment expressions (e.g., commissive language), and discourse patterns (e.g., incoherence) on overall consumer sentiment (i.e., star ratings). In two follow-up studies, we demonstrate that these speech act features also influence the readers' behavior and are generalizable to other social media contexts, such as Twitter and Facebook. We contribute to research on consumer sentiment analysis by offering a more nuanced understanding of consumer sentiments and their implications.
Whereas recent research has demonstrated the impact of online product ratings and reviews on product sales, we still have a limited understanding of the individual's decision to contribute these opinions. In this research, we empirically model the individual's decision to provide a product rating and investigate factors that influence this decision. Specifically, we consider how previously posted ratings may affect an individual's posting behavior in terms of whether to contribute (incidence) and what to contribute (evaluation), and we identify selection effects that influence the incidence decision and adjustment effects that influence the evaluation decision. Across individuals, our results show that positive ratings environments increase posting incidence, whereas negative ratings environments discourage posting. Our results also indicate important differences across individuals in how they respond to previously posted ratings, with less frequent posters exhibiting bandwagon behavior and more active customers revealing differentiation behavior. These dynamics affect the evolution of online product opinions. Through simulations, we illustrate how the evolution of posted product opinions is shaped by the underlying customer base and show that customer bases with the same median opinion may evolve in substantially different ways because of the presence of a core group of “activists” posting increasingly negative opinions.
We investigate the evolution of online ratings over time and sequence. We first establish that there exist two distinct dynamic processes, one as a function of the amount of time a book has been available for review and another as a function of the sequence of reviews themselves. We find that, once we control for calendar date, the residual average temporal pattern is increasing. This is counter to existing findings that suggest that without this calendar-date control, the pattern is decreasing. With respect to sequential dynamics, we find that ratings decrease: the nth rating is, on average, lower than the n-1th when controlling for time, reviewer effects, and book effects. We test and find some support for existing theories for this decline based on motivation. We then offer two additional explanations for this order effect. We find support for the idea that one's ability to assess the diagnosticity of previous reviews decreases: when previous reviewers are very different, more reviews may thus lead to more purchase errors and lower ratings.
Customers increasingly rely on other consumers' reviews to make purchase decisions online. New insights into the customer review phenomenon can be derived from studying the semantic content and style properties of verbatim customer reviews to examine their influence on online retail sites' conversion rates. The authors employ text mining to extract changes in affective content and linguistic style properties of customer book reviews on Amazon.com. A dynamic panel data model reveals that the influence of positive affective content on conversion rates is asymmetrical, such that greater increases in positive affective content in customer reviews have a smaller effect on subsequent increases in conversion rate. No such tapering-off effect occurs for changes in negative affective content in reviews. Furthermore, positive changes in affective cues and increasing congruence with the product interest group's typical linguistic style directly and conjointly increase conversion rates. These findings suggest that managers should identify and promote the most influential reviews in a given product category, provide instructions to stimulate reviewers to write powerful reviews, and adapt the style of their own editorial reviews to the relevant product category.
Mobile users can create word of mouth (WOM) wherever they are and whenever they want to do so. This real-time creation process may be associated with differences in the content and consumption value of mobile versus nonmobile word of mouth. We analyze 275,362 reviews from 117,827 reviewers describing their experiences at 134,976 restaurants as well as a dual platform subsample of 21,026 reviews written by 673 reviewers who wrote at least four mobile and four nonmobile reviews. We also examine how the introduction of the mobile platform affected WOM consumption. We find that WOM content is more affective, more concrete, and less extreme when created on mobile devices. These differences in content (more affective, more concrete, and less extreme) vary in their relationships with the perceived consumption value of mobile content. Beyond the indirect relationship between platform and consumption value through content, reviews created on mobile devices are associated with lower consumption value. This direct relationship grows stronger over time. Although consumers initially value both real-time mobile content and nonmobile content, even after controlling for a large set of content and contextual variables, over time consumers value mobile reviews less than they do nonmobile reviews.
The IT service industry values the experience of social familiarity, which is based on routine interactions with suppliers and customers and is at the frontier of social media marketing. To further understand how IT service companies use social media to engage their customers or potential leads, the objectives of this research are to delineate the differences between IT service companies' use of social media and users' expectations based on knowledge extracted from user-generated content on Twitter. We applied a text mining approach called two-tier concept-linking analysis to extract patterns in Twitter posts from top IT service companies as well as the related tweets from the Twitter users. We further compare the yearly similarities and differences of the key concepts from the company's official account and from the users. Besides, the key concepts between users' expectations and IT service companies' social media use were compared on the basis of first-tier concepts and further elaborated by their corresponding second-tier concepts. Our approach contributes to further understand the socio-cognitive insights underlying the dynamic social media data, from which organizations and individuals in charge can note the objectives they wish to maintain and the marketing gaps they wish to improve on.
Firms collect an increasing amount of consumer feedback in the form of unstructured consumer reviews. These reviews contain text about consumer experiences with products and services that are different from surveys that query consumers for specific information. A challenge in analyzing unstructured consumer reviews is in making sense of the topics that are expressed in the words used to describe these experiences. We propose a new model for text analysis that makes use of the sentence structure contained in the reviews and show that it leads to improved inference and prediction of consumer ratings relative to existing models using data from www.expedia.com and www.we8there.com. Sentence-based topics are found to be more distinguished and coherent than those identified from a word-based analysis.
A firm's strategic emphasis on value creation versus appropriation, which is typically reflected in its resource allocation between R&D and advertising, is a central corporate decision that significantly influences financial performance. However, the drivers of such decisions remain underexplored. This study identifies a significant predictor of strategic emphasis, namely, corporate managerial hubris, and reveals some of its boundary conditions. Leveraging a unique dataset based on text mining of press releases issued by over 400 firms across 13 years, the authors demonstrate that high corporate managerial hubris predicts low strategic emphasis on advertising relative to R&D. However, this effect is mitigated significantly by firm maturity, corporate governance, and industry-level strategic emphasis. The results provide novel insights into the effects of hubris on firm spending, the situations wherein marketing decisions tend to be subject to managers' psychological bias, the means of preventing over- or under-investment in marketing strategy, and the recruitment and training of managers.
Our Tablet Computer data set, collected from various websites, contains market dynamics related to 2,163 products, characteristics of 794 products, more than 40,000 consumer-generated product reviews, and information about 39,278 reviewers. The market dynamic information was collected weekly for 24 weeks starting February 1, 2012. Our Tablet Computer data set comprises four tables: the Market Dynamics of Products, Product Characteristic Information, Consumer-Generated Product Reviews, and Reviewer Information tables. In turn, it offers three unique properties. First, it contains both structured product information and unstructured product reviews. Second, it comprises product characteristic information and market dynamic information. Third, this data set integrates user-generated content with manufacturer-provided content. This integrated data set (available at http://pubsonline.informs.org/page/mksc/online-databases) is valuable for both academics and practitioners who conduct research related to marketing, information systems, computer science, and other fields using digital data readily available through the Internet.
Purpose It has been suggested that brands and products often assume a role in selfies (Ham, 2014) where the expression of brands and products provokes consumer emotions that bring about greater engagement (Tsai and Men, 2013) and contributes to the interactivity with the brands. This study aims to understand how the selfie phenomenon could mobilize the interactivity between brands and target audiences, in a way that could be used as a marketing tool by companies. Design/methodology/approach A netnographic research methodology was used for the current study because it is a method specifically designed to study online communities (Kozinets, 2010). The experiences of brand selfie postings on Instagram were studied by analyzing users' selfies to predict brand usage. A purposive sample of Instagram users was chosen, and from these, a total of 74 brand selfies were analyzed. Findings This study provided an understanding of consumer behavior and marketing practices in the social marketplace through a detailed exploration of the data using visual and textual analysis. The main finding of this study is that consumers both consume and produce brand meanings in digital platforms; hence, companies should view them not only as passive receivers of messages, but also potential generators and co-creators of brand messages. Originality/value The growing trend in the selfie phenomenon along with social networking sites (hereinafter SNSs) have attracted the attention of both users and marketing experts in terms of consumer-brand relationship (Zhu and Chen, 2015). In line with this current trend, many studies have attempted to understand the influential impact of the selfie phenomenon through SNSs. Studies on the motivation of selfie postings (Pounders et al., 2016) and selfie-posting behavior on SNSs (Kim et al., 2016) have been carried out; however, how brand selfies posted on SNSs appeal to non-users and how they interact with them remain unclear. Consequently, the intention of the current study is to provide some insight in this area.
Previous research on word of mouth (WOM) has presented inconsistent evidence on whether consumers are more inclined to share positive or negative information about products and services. Some findings suggest that consumers are more inclined to engage in positive WOM, whereas others suggest that consumers are more inclined to engage in negative WOM. The present research offers a theoretical perspective that provides a means to resolve these seemingly contradictory findings. Specifically, the authors compare the generation of WOM (i.e., consumers sharing information about their own experiences) with the transmission of WOM (i.e., consumers passing on information about experiences they heard occurred to others). They suggest that a basic human motive to self-enhance leads consumers to generate positive WOM (i.e., share information about their own positive consumption experiences) but transmit negative WOM (i.e., pass on information they heard about others' negative consumption experiences). The authors present evidence for self-enhancement motives playing out in opposite ways for WOM generation versus WOM transmission across four experiments.
Using text-mining, the authors develop version 1.0 of the Relevance to Marketing (R2M) Index, a dynamic index that measures the topical and timely relevance of academic marketing articles to marketing practice. The index assesses topical relevance drawing on a dictionary of marketing terms derived from 50,000 marketing articles published in practitioner outlets from 1982 to 2019. Timely relevance is based on the prevalence of academic marketing topics in practitioner publications at a given time. The authors classify topics into four quadrants based on their low/high popularity in academia and practice -Desert, Academic Island, Executive Fields, and Highlands-and score academic articles and journals: Journal of Marketing has the highest R2M score, followed by Marketing Science, Journal of Marketing Research, and Journal of Consumer Research. The index correlates with practitioner judgments of practical relevance and other relevance measures. Because the index is a work in progress, the authors discuss how to overcome current limitations and suggest correlating the index with citation counts, altmetrics, and readability measures. Marketing practitioners, authors, and journal editors can use the index to assess article relevance, and academic administrators can use it for promotion and tenure decisions (see www.R2Mindex.com). The R2M Index is thus not only a measurement instrument but also a tool for change.
With artificial intelligence permeating conversations and marketing interactions through digital technologies and media, machine learning models, in particular, natural language processing (NLP) models, have surged in popularity for analyzing unstructured data in marketing. Yet, we do not fully understand which NLP models are appropriate for which marketing applications and what insights can be best derived from them. We review different NLP models and their applications in marketing. We layout the advantages and disadvantages of these models and highlight the conditions under which different models are appropriate in the marketing context. We introduce the latest neural autoencoder NLP models, demonstrate these models to analyze new product announcements and news articles, and provide an empirical comparison of the different autoencoder models along with the statistical NLP models. We discuss the insights from the comparison and offer guidelines for researchers. We outline future extensions of NLP models in marketing.
Increasing competition has induced brands to find ever more innovative ways to raise awareness. Among the latter, co-branding has recently become pervasive in the luxury fashion sector. Despite the growing interest in co-branding, no study to date has examined how luxury fashion brands can strategically combine different types of co-branding and the amount of media visibility that they can gain by means of these brand alliances. Drawing on both case study analysis and automated text analysis, this paper on the longitudinal case of the luxury fashion brand Off-White offers important managerial implication. It shows that, to create a successful co-branding portfolio, luxury brands should initially collaborate with renowned brands in the same target market, and only later with brands operating in other sectors. This study also reports empirical findings with which to understand what are the most suitable forms of co-branding to pursue to increase media visibility and consumers' engagement in social media.
This research sheds light on consumer motivations for participating in the sharing economy and examines downstream consequences of the uncovered motivations. We use text-mining techniques to extract Airbnb hosts' motivations from their responses to the question why did you start hosting. We find that hosts are driven not only by the monetary motivation to earn cash but also by intrinsic motivations such as to share beauty and to meet people. Using extensive transaction-level data, we find that hosts with intrinsic motivations post more property photos and write longer property descriptions, demonstrating greater engagement with the platform. Consequently, these hosts receive higher guest satisfaction ratings. Compared to hosts who want to earn cash, hosts motivated to meet people are more likely to keep hosting and to stay active on the platform, and hosts motivated to share beauty charge higher prices. As a result, these intrinsically motivated hosts have a higher customer lifetime value compared to those with a monetary motivation. We employ a multimethod approach including text mining, Bayesian latent attrition models, and lab experiments to derive these insights. Our research provides an easy-to-implement approach to uncovering consumer motivations in practice and highlights the consequential role of these motivations for firms.
Purpose This study intends to examine consumers' fashion customization experiences through a web content mining (WCM) approach. By applying the theory of customer value, this study explores the benefits and costs of two levels of mass customization (MC) to identify the values derived from style (i.e. shoe customization) and fit customization experiences (i.e. apparel customization) and further to compare the dominating dimensions of value derived across style and fit customization. Design/methodology/approach A WCM approach was applied. Also, two case studies were conducted with one focusing on style customization and the other focusing on fit customization. The brand Vans was selected to examine style customization in study 1. The brand Sumissura was selected to examine fit customization in study 2. Consumers' comments on customization experiences from these two brands were collected through social networks, respectively. After data cleaning, 394 reviews for Vans and 510 reviews for Sumissura were included in the final data analysis. Co-occurrence plots, feature extraction and grouping were used for the data analysis. Findings The emotional value was found to be the major benefit for style customization, while the functional value was indicated as the major benefit for fit customization, followed by ease of use and emotional value. In addition, three major themes of costs, including unsatisfied service, disappointing product performance and financial risk, were revealed by excavating and evaluating consumers' feedback of their actual clothing customization experiences with Sumissura. Originality/value This study initiates the effort to use web mining, specifically, the WCM approach to thoroughly investigate the benefits and costs of MC through real consumers' feedback of two different types of fashion products. The analysis of this study also reflects the levels of customization: style and fit. It provides an in-depth text analysis of online MC consumers' feedback through the use of feature extraction analysis and word co-occurrence networks.
Why are certain pieces of online content (e.g., advertisements, videos, news articles) more viral than others? This article takes a psychological approach to understanding diffusion. Using a unique data set of all the New York Times articles published over a three-month period, the authors examine how emotion shapes virality. The results indicate that positive content is more viral than negative content, but the relationship between emotion and social transmission is more complex than valence alone. Virality is partially driven by physiological arousal. Content that evokes high-arousal positive (awe) or negative (anger or anxiety) emotions is more viral. Content that evokes low-arousal, or deactivating, emotions (e.g., sadness) is less viral. These results hold even when the authors control for how surprising, interesting, or practically useful content is (all of which are positively linked to virality), as well as external drivers of attention (e.g., how prominently content was featured). Experimental results further demonstrate the causal impact of specific emotion on transmission and illustrate that it is driven by the level of activation induced. Taken together, these findings shed light on why people share content and how to design more effective viral marketing campaigns.
We empirically investigate how writers' output is affected by copyright piracy using data from a Chinese digital publishing platform. We identify two measurements of writers' output-creative productivity and customer care-which are also affected by readers' feedback through purchasing, tipping, and commenting. We take advantage of an exogenous event-the termination of a free personal storage service and search function by a leading Chinese cloud storage provider in June 2016-to causally identify the effects of the resulting reduced copyright piracy on writers' efforts. Using a difference-in-differences modeling approach, we compare the changes in average writer behavior before and after the event across two groups of writers: (1) writers who have profit-sharing contracts with the platform and (2) those who do not. We find that after the termination, contracted writers increased their creative productivity efforts in terms of quantity without sacrificing quality but reduced their customer care efforts. However, these effects are absent for noncontracted writers. Our study is among the first to provide empirical support for the positive effect of digital intellectual property rights infringement reduction on creative productivity.
Marketing scholars increasingly use web scraping and application programming interfaces (APIs) to collect data from the internet. Yet, despite the widespread use of such web data, the idiosyncratic and sometimes insidious challenges in its collection have received limited attention. How can researchers ensure that the data sets generated via web scraping and APIs are valid? While existing resources emphasize technical details of extracting web data, the authors propose a novel methodological framework focused on enhancing its validity. In particular, the framework highlights how addressing validity concerns requires the joint consideration of idiosyncratic technical and legal/ethical questions along the three stages of collecting web data: selecting data sources, designing the data collection, and extracting the data. The authors further review more than 300 articles using web data published in the top five marketing journals and offer a typology of how web data have advanced marketing thought. The article concludes with directions for future research to identify promising web data sources and embrace novel approaches for using web data to capture and describe evolving marketplace realities.
In this article, the authors explore the origins and evolution of product markets from a sociocognitive perspective. Product markets are defined as socially constructed knowledge structures (i.e., product conceptual systems) that are shared among producers and consumers-sharing that enables consumers and producers to interact in the market. The fundamental thesis is that product markets are neither imposed nor orchestrated by producers or consumers but evolve from producer-consumer interaction feedback effects. Starting as unstable, incomplete, and disjointed conceptual systems held by market actors-which is revealed by the cacophony of uses, claims, and product standards that characterize emerging product markets-product markets become coherent as a result of consumers and producers making sense of each other's behaviors. The authors further argue that the sensemaking process is revealed in the stories that consumers and producers tell each other in published media, such as industry newspapers and consumer magazines, which the authors use as data sources. Specific hypotheses pertaining to the use of product category labels in published sources and the acceptability of different product category members throughout the development process are tested for the minivan market between 1982 and 1988. The findings suggest that category stabilization causes significant differences between consumers and producers in how they use product category labels for emerging and preexisting categories. The findings also show that, as stabilization occurs around a category prototype, the acceptability of particular models changes without any physical changes to the models.
Social media provide consumers with a platform for interactivity, and interactivity leads to consumer empowerment by providing the consumer with a platform to make their voice heard. This paper contributes to the marketing literature exploring the voice of the consumer in consumer-generated advertisements (CGAs). The objective of this research is to find ways to measure consumer response to CGAs. We measure whether they differ from firm-generated ads in the responses they elicit and also observe whether they generate different responses by ad type, or if some categories have similar responses. We review CGAs for Apple's MacBook Air lightweight laptop and run a text mining application to understand the common themes and conduct text analysis on the responses to both CGAs and firm-generated ads to answer the question Is the source of the advertisement important? Text analytics also enable us to measure consumers' attitude toward products, companies, and ads. We then work toward understanding why and under what circumstances CGAs are effective and how companies may handle or foster different types of CGAs. Copyright (C) 2011 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Purpose Privacy considerations have become a topic with increasing interest from academics, industry leaders and regulators. In response to consumers' privacy concerns, Google announced in 2020 that Chrome would stop supporting third-party cookies in the near future. At the same time, advertising technology companies are developing alternative solutions for online targeting and consumer privacy controls. This paper aims to explore privacy considerations related to online tracking and targeting methods used for programmatic advertising (i.e. third-party cookies, Privacy Sandbox, Unified ID 2.0) for a variety of stakeholders: consumers, AdTech platforms, advertisers and publishers. Design/methodology/approach This study analyzes the topic of internet user privacy concerns, through a multi-pronged approach: industry conversations to collect information, a comprehensive review of trade publications and extensive empirical analysis. This study uses two methods to collect data on consumer preferences for privacy controls: a survey of a representative sample of US consumers and field data from conversations on web-forums created by tech professionals. Findings The results suggest that there are four main segments in the US internet user population. The first segment, consisting of 26% of internet users, is driven by a strong preference for relevant ads and includes consumers who accept the premises of both Privacy Sandbox and Unified ID (UID) 2.0. The second segment (26%) includes consumers who are ambivalent about both sets of premises. The third segment (34%) is driven by a need for relevant ads and a strong desire to prevent advertisers from aggressively collecting data, with consumers who accept the premises of Privacy Sandbox but reject the premises of UID 2.0. The fourth segment (15% of consumers) rejected both sets of premises about privacy control. Text analysis results suggest that the conversation around UID 2.0 is still nascent. Google Sandbox associations seem nominally positive, with sarcasm being an important factor in the sentiment analysis results. Originality/value The value of this paper lies in its multi-method examination of online privacy concerns in light of the recent regulatory legislation (i.e. General Data Protection Regulation and California Consumer Privacy Act) and changes for third-party cookies in browsers such as Firefox, Safari and Chrome. Two alternatives proposed to replace third-party cookies (Privacy Sandbox and Unified ID 2.0) are in the proposal and prototype stage. The elimination of third-party cookies will affect stakeholders, including different types of players in the AdTech industry and internet users. This paper analyzes how two alternative proposals for privacy control align with the interests of several stakeholders.
Purpose - The purpose of this exploratory study is to propose a new methodological approach to investigate brand associations. More specifically, the study aims to show how brand associations can be identified and analysed in an online community of international consumers of fashion to determine the degree of matching with company-defined brand associations. Design/methodology/approach - The methodology is two-pronged, integrating qualitative market research techniques with quantitative text mining. It was applied to determine types and perceptions of brand associations among fashion bloggers with reference to three leading Italian fashion houses. These were then compared to brand associations found in company-generated texts to measure the degree of matching. Findings - The results showed consistent brand associations across the three brands, as well as substantial matching with company-defined brand associations. In addition, the analysis revealed the presence of distinctive brand association themes that shed further light on how brand attributes were perceived by blog participants. Practical implications - The methods described can be used by managers to identify and reinforce favourable brand associations among consumers. This knowledge can then be applied towards developing and implementing effective brand strategies. Originality/value - The authors propose an interdisciplinary approach to investigate brand associations in online communities. It incorporates text mining and computer-assisted textual analysis as techniques borrowed from the field of linguistics which have thus far seen little application in marketing studies, but can nonetheless provide important insights for strategic brand management.
We investigate factors influencing the international retailing of cultural products by concentrating on two cultural elements: (1) consumer-perceived cultural content embedded in the product and (2) the general cultural environment of the foreign market. To test cross-culture predictability in international retailing, we develop a novel text mining procedure to elicit the specific cultural content of the product using consumers' online product reviews. In addition, to measure the general cultural environment of the market, we apply Hofstede's cultural distance measure. To explain foreign markets' acceptance of culturally specific elements, we theorize that the relationship between inter-country cultural distance and product sales is U shaped because of both cultural discount and cultural premium. In our empirical analysis using American movies in international retailing, we find that the two specified types of cultural factors determine a movie's success, along with the movie's characteristics and the market's economic environment. From a managerial perspective, international retailers that understand the delicate implications of the match/mismatch of their general national culture and the imported product's specific cultural content can better predict the international success of imported cultural products.
Variety-seeking research has examined antecedents in terms of contextual factors and individual differences. However, it does not consider the interaction of individual difference factors such as regulatory focus (promotion vs. prevention) and regulatory mode (locomotion vs. assessment) to predict variety-seeking. Drawing on regulatory fit theory, this study introduces a new kind of regulatory fit based on the interaction between regulatory focus and mode (i.e., regulatory focus-mode fit), thereby extending previous work examining fit based on either regulatory focus or regulatory mode in isolation. Results from five studies, including field data from 10,547 music app consumers (text analysis), two preregistered studies, and two online experiments, show that regulatory focus-mode fit (vs. non-fit) decreases variety-seeking. Engagement and attitude certainty serially mediate regulatory focus-mode fit effects. Findings provide implications for consumer segmentation and message framing.
This article contributes to research on advertising effectiveness by investigating the combined influence of ad headlines and visual patterns in the ad on consumer product evaluations. Headlines can convey motion (e.g., move, quick); when the associated ad features a regular visual pattern, it evokes stronger product evaluations than if it depicts an irregular visual pattern. Thus, the way the advertised products are aligned visually represents critical decisions for ad designers. As Study 1 reveals, if the regular visual pattern of an advertisement combines with verbal information conveying motion, stronger product evaluations result compared with the use of an irregular visual pattern. Study 2 extends these findings by demonstrating that a regular pattern creates mental simulation, such that consumers imagine themselves experiencing the product, which mediates the relationship between visual patterns and product evaluations. Study 3 uses text mining and image annotation analyses to provide ecological validity for the findings, corroborating them in the context of brand messages on Twitter.
User-generated content in the form of customer reviews, blogs, and tweets is an emerging and rich source of data for marketers. Topic models have been successfully applied to such data, demonstrating that empirical text analysis benefits greatly from a latent variable approach that summarizes high-level interactions among words. We propose a new topic model that allows for serial dependency of topics in text. That is, topics may carry over from word to word in a document, violating the bag-of-words assumption in traditional topic models. In the proposed model, topic carryover is informed by sentence conjunctions and punctuation. Typically, such observed information is eliminated prior to analyzing text data (i.e., preprocessing) because words such as “and” and “but” do not differentiate topics. We find that these elements of grammar contain information relevant to topic changes. We examine the performance of our models using multiple data sets and establish boundary conditions for when our model leads to improved inference about customer evaluations. Implications and opportunities for future research are discussed.
The aim of this study is to utilise the user-generated content from social media platforms and merchandise websites to explore various values affecting behavioural intention in context of e-Learning services from the consumption-value-theory perspective. This study has utilised a novel mixed-method approach based on natural language processing (NLP) techniques for the both the qualitative and quantitative analysis. This study has used user-generated content of Coursera (an e-Learning service) consisting of online reviews from Coursera-100 k-dataset and tweets about Coursera. Some of the important themes generated from the thematic-based analysis of tweets are 'value addition', 'course content', 'topic cover', 'reliability of course', 'course quality', 'enjoyed course', 'recommend the course', 'value for money', 'facilitator skills', etc. Results of the empirical study reveal that offers and deals, emotional connect, facilitator quality, course reliability, platform innovativeness, and compatibility are important predictors of behavioural intention. This study concludes with the various limitations and future directions.
Purpose Consumers often search for movie information and purchase tickets on the go. A synopsis is often provided by producers and theatres in mobile apps and websites. However, to the best of the authors' knowledge, little research has investigated whether the synopsis has an impact on a movie's box office. This research uses computerized text analysis in examining the influence of linguistic cues of a synopsis on the movie's financial performance. This paper aims to show that language choice in a synopsis is a significant factor in predicting box office performance. Design/methodology/approach A total usable sample of 5973 movies was collected using a web crawler. Computerised text analysis using linguistic inquiry and word count was adopted to analyse the movie synopses data. The empirical study comprises two phases. Phase 1 used exploratory factor analysis on 50 per cent of the sample (Sample 1) to establish the dimensionality of psychological processes as reflected in the linguistic expressions. The analysis identified 11 linguistic variables that loaded on four dimensions. The factor structure was replicated on an independent sample (Sample 2) using confirmatory factor analysis. Phase 2 tested the hypotheses using structure equation modelling. Findings Results show that consistency between movie genres and linguistic cues in a film synopsis promotes movie box office revenue when linguistic cues shown in the synopsis confirm a consumer's expectancies about a focal movie genre. Conversely, a synopsis reduces the movie box office revenue when the linguistic cues shown disconfirm the genre-based expectancies. These linguistic cues exert similar effects on action and crime films but different effects on comedies and drama films. Originality/value To our knowledge, this research is the first in studying the linguistic cues in synopses and its relation to box office performance. It addresses this knowledge gap by answering the basic question of whether movie synopses matter. Methodically, the paper marks the first attempt to use the two-step structural equation modelling method on computerised content analysis data.
Consumers are increasingly sharing their opinions on societal issues and products online. We studied the implications of such online word-of-mouth for consumer judgement and decision-making. The case used is organic food, which is the most successful among the currently emerging, sustainability-differentiated food product categories. We first analysed the online discussion on organic food by conducting a text-mining study of reader comments (N = 63,379) from the comments section of a major German online news outlet. Topics therein are discussed with differing frequency, thereby indicating the salience of the various issues to online readers and consumers. One organic food topic of high salience (animal welfare) and one of low salience (biodiversity) were selected to investigate the behavioural relevance of salient online topics in a subsequent priming experiment (online survey of German consumers; N = 1,118). In particular, we tested whether the relative online salience of the two topics used as primes influenced the likelihood of choosing organic instead of conventional eggs and milk in a choice experiment and the acceptance of policies supporting organic farming. Although ineffective for the choice of milk, the priming worked as hypothesized regarding the choice of eggs and policy acceptance. Priming the topic with high online salience is more effective at promoting pro-organic behaviour than priming the topic with low online salience. Priming effects also depended on prime strength, attitude strength and experience with buying organic food. We discuss how insights from text mining of online word-of-mouth can be employed to promote sustainable consumption behaviour.
This study investigates whether the personalities of Chief Marketing Officers (CMOs) of technology-based new ventures affect how the increasing maturity of new ventures translates into web traffic. Drawing on upper echelon theory and the interactionist theory of job performance, we explain how certain personality traits from the five-factor model are relevant to the job demands a CMO faces in technology-based new ventures. We build a multi-source dataset on 627 new ventures and use a novel approach to measuring personality that is based on computer text analysis-specifically, the LIWC application-which we apply to the CMOs' Twitter accounts. Our findings indicate that a CMO's extraversion positively moderates the relationship between a new venture's maturity and web traffic, while a CMO's conscientiousness is a negative moderator of this relationship. These results have useful theoretical and practical implications for the role of the CMO and for marketing new ventures in general.
When sharing information and opinions about products, services, and experiences, communicators often use either past or present tense (e.g., That restaurant was great or That restaurant is great). Might such differences in verb tense shape communication's impact, and if so, how? A multimethod investigation, including eight studies conducted in the field and lab, demonstrates that using present (vs. past) tense can increase persuasion. Natural language processing of over 500,000 online reviews in multiple product and service domains, for example, illustrates that reviews that use more present tense are seen as more helpful and useful. Follow-up experiments demonstrate that shifting from past to present tense increases persuasion and illustrate the underlying process through both mediation and moderation. When communicators use present (rather than past) tense to express their opinions and experiences, it suggests that they are more certain about what they are saying, which increases persuasion. These findings shed light on how language impacts consumer behavior, highlight how a subtle, yet central linguistic feature shapes communication, and have clear implications for persuasion across a range of situations.
This study evaluated the branding of a slum project as a social marketing initiative to transform the Jodipan slum area into a tourism village in the city of Malang. An action-evaluation research project was conducted through the combination of the marketing and planning oriented approaches by the communications department at a major public university in Indonesia between June 2016 and October 2017. The study employed a case study supported by qualitative data from primary and secondary sources, including social media text mining analysis. Moreover, an evaluation survey was conducted using proportionally random sampling from 650 slum dwellers to assess the impacts of the project in terms of the general welfare of the community. The transformation of the slum area into a new tourist destination was found to have been successfully implemented through the combined marketing and planning-oriented community social marketing project. The tourist destination produced was also observed to have a good impact on environmental sustainability and economic value for the local community. Jodipan branding project is unique as observed in its ability to transform an unhealthy settlement into a healthy settlement. Theoretically, it has contributed to new knowledge on slum upgrading in urban studies, especially with the focus on the successful improvement of the physical, social, and economic conditions of the area. This research further contributed to a new understanding and novelty of knowledge on the ability of place branding, as a social marketing strategy, to change the behavior of slum dwellers. However, this research has limitations in exploring the local government's response to the project, therefore, future studies need to clarify issues relating to local policies and official budgets for its sustainability.
The authors examine the effect of consumer reviews on relative sales of books at Amazon.com and Barnesandnoble.com. The authors find that (1) reviews are overwhelmingly positive at both sites, but there are more reviews and longer reviews at Amazon.com; (2) an improvement in a book's reviews leads to an increase in relative sales at that site; (3) for most samples in the study, the impact of one-star reviews is greater than the impact of five-star reviews; and (4) evidence from review-length data suggests that customers read review text rather than relying only on summary statistics.
This research introduces a method for segmenting customers using Structural Topic Modelling (STM), a text analysis tool capable of capturing topical content and topical prevalence differences across customers while incorporating metadata. This approach is particularly suitable for contexts in which textual data is either a critical component or is the only data available for segmentation. The ability to incorporate metadata by using STM provides better clustering solutions and supports richer segment profiles than can be produced with typical topic modelling approaches. We empirically illustrate the application of this method in two contexts: 1) a context in which related metadata is readily available; and 2) a context in which metadata is virtually non-existent. The second context exemplifies how ad-hoc generated metadata can increase the utility of the method for identifying distinct segments.
Past empirical studies have analysed the influence of manifest online review content factors and the reviewer-related factors on online review helpfulness. However, the influence of latent content factors, which are implied from the text and that result in the differential helpfulness perceptions of review receivers, have been ignored. Hence, using the lens of the Elaboration Likelihood Model (ELM), we develop a comprehensive model to study the influence of content- and reviewer-related factors on review helpfulness. This study not only includes the manifest content-related and reviewer-related factors, but also the latent content factors consisting of argument quality (comprehensiveness, clarity, readability and relevance) and message valence. The study initially employs a manual content analysis to analyse the argument quality of 500 TripAdvisor reviews (Study 1). Subsequently, model testing techniques are used to study the holistic and relative influence of these different factors on review helpfulness. In the validation study (Study 2), Machine Learning and Natural Language Processing techniques are used to extract latent content information and test the above model with 50,000 reviews from Yelp.com. The results show that latent review content variables like argument quality and valence influence the helpfulness of the reviews better and beyond the previously studied, manifest review content- and reviewer-related factors. (C) 2019 Direct Marketing Educational Foundation, Inc. dba Marketing EDGE. All rights reserved.
Purpose Despite the growing consensus that consumers extensively use online reviews and that negative reviews can significantly damage brand equity, it remains uncertain whether negative online reviews that focus on different aspects of a service have a similar or differential effect on brand equity. This study aims to fill this gap and explores the mediating role of emotional contagion and what kind of response helps better deter their negative effect. Design/methodology/approach This research is conducted through a one-panel study and three experimental studies. SAS enterprise miner is used for text mining analysis and Analysis of variance (ANOVA) and Process macro models are used to analyze the experimental data. Findings Negative reviews related to the tangibility, responsiveness and empathy dimensions have a more detrimental effect on brand equity than negative reviews related to the assurance and reliability dimensions. The results also provide evidence that emotional contagion is more prevalent when consumers read reviews that are specific to the empathy and responsiveness dimensions. Finally, accommodative responses from the service provider are more effective in deterring the effect of a negative online review on brand equity. Research limitations/implications The generalizability of this study is limited to the restaurant and hotel industry. Practical implications The findings will also help the brand manager in understanding the comparative effect of service quality-specific negative reviews on brand equity and also the type of responses that brand managers should give to negative reviews. Originality/value Despite online reviews receiving increased attention in academic research, Service quality (SERVQUAL) dimension-specific reviews have not been studied until now. This study contributes to the service quality-related literature by providing evidence that not all negative online reviews related to different Service quality (SERVQUAL) dimensions equally affect brand equity.
There are three defects for providing human-labor customer services in e-commerce operations: high costs of human labors, staff turnover, and lack of service quality assurance. Breakthroughs made in artificial intelligence, natural language processing and related fields make it possible to replace human labors with online artificial intelligent robots to provide the e-commerce customer service, which indicates the online robots are the future of e-commerce customer services. However, most of the current robots are designed to reply with knowledge matching the key words in question sentences from the database, rarely involving in research on customer intentions that are key factors influencing user experience and online sales. In this research, an intention recognizing model was proposed to obtain intentions of e-commerce consumers by computing the strengths of candidate intention nodes in the intention graph, which was used to describe relations between different goods that could be the intentional targets of e-commerce consumers. The proposed robot was constructed based on the intention recognizing model to identify intentions of consumers and use the located knowledge combined with the AIML based sentence composition template to produce the response sentences for consumers. At last, the proposed robot was evaluated using F3 and ROUGE metrics by comparing with a keyword matching robot. And the evaluation results proved the validity of the proposed robot.
Purpose The purpose of this paper is to determine the triggers of positive electronic word of mouth (eWOM) using real-time Big Data obtained from online retail sites/dedicated review sites. Design/methodology/approach In this study, real-time Big Data has been used and analysed through support vector machine, to segregate positive and negative eWOM. Thereafter, using natural language processing algorithms, this study has classified the triggers of positive eWOM based on their relative importance across six product categories. Findings The most important triggers of positive eWOM (like product experience, product type, product characteristics) were similar across different product categories. The second-level antecedents of positive eWOM included the person(s) for whom the product is purchased, the price and the source of the product, packaging and eagerness in patronising a brand. Practical implications The findings of this study indicate that the marketers who are active in the digital forum should encourage and incentivise their satisfied consumers to disseminate positive eWOM. Consumers with special interest for any product type (mothers or doctors for baby food) may be incentivised to write positive eWOM about the product's ingredients/characteristics. Companies can launch the sequels of existing television or online advertisements addressing for whom the product is purchased. Originality/value This study identified the triggers of the positive eWOM using real-time Big Data extracted from online purchase platforms. This study also contributes to the literature by identifying the levels of triggers that are most, more and moderately important to the customers for writing positive reviews online.
Political advertising is controversial, as there is widespread concern about money from political action committees (PACs and super PACs) distorting the democratic process. Studying advertising effectiveness is, however, a challenging topic for several reasons, including the endogenous nature of fundraising and ad spending rates. However, the extensive use of targeting based on designated marketing areas (DMAs) creates a setting in which neighboring counties with comparable demographics receive different levels of advertising exposure. In this paper, we leverage these advertising discontinuities along DMA borders to study the relative effectiveness of political advertising on vote shares and turnout rates in 2010 and 2012 senatorial elections. We find that negative advertising sponsored by PACs is significantly less effective than that sponsored by candidates in affecting two-party vote shares and voter turnout. A 1% increase in negative advertising by the candidate produces a significant 0.015% lift in the candidate's unconditional vote shares. By contrast, negative advertising from PACs is ineffective in increasing its supported candidate's unconditional vote share. Further analysis reveals that the competitiveness of races moderates the effectiveness of political advertising, providing implications for those managing candidates' campaigns, PACs, and super PACs. Data and the online appendix are available at https://doi.org/10.1287/mksc.2017.1079.
Purpose This paper aims to equip professionals and researchers in the fields of advertising, branding, public relations, marketing communications, social media analytics and marketing with a simple, effective and dynamic means of evaluating consumer behavioural sentiments and engagement through Arabic language and script, in vivo. Design/methodology/approach Using quantitative and qualitative situational linguistic analyses of Classical Arabic, found in Quranic and religious texts scripts; Modern Standard Arabic, which is commonly used in formal Arabic channels; and dialectical Arabic, which varies hugely from one Arabic country to another: this study analyses rich marketing and consumer messages (tweets) - as a basis for developing an Arabic language social media methodological tool. Findings Despite the popularity of Arabic language communication on social media platforms across geographies, currently, comprehensive language processing toolkits for analysing Arabic social media conversations have limitations and require further development. Furthermore, due to its unique morphology, developing text understanding capabilities specific to the Arabic language poses challenges. Practical implications This study demonstrates the application and effectiveness of the proposed methodology on a random sample of Twitter data from Arabic-speaking regions. Furthermore, as Arabic is the language of Islam, the study is of particular importance to Islamic and Muslim geographies, markets and marketing. Social implications The findings suggest that the proposed methodology has a wider potential beyond the data set and health-care sector analysed, and therefore, can be applied to further markets, social media platforms and consumer segments. Originality/value To remedy these gaps, this study presents a new methodology and analytical approach to investigating Arabic language social media conversations, which brings together a multidisciplinary knowledge of technology, data science and marketing communications.
The recent growth of consumer-generated media (CGM), also known as new media, has changed the interaction between consumers and firms from being unidirectional to being bidirectional. However, CGM are almost always accompanied by traditional media (such as TV advertising). This research addresses the critical question of whether new and traditional media reinforce or damage one another's effectiveness. This question is important because traditional media, in which a manufacturer creates and delivers content to consumers, consume a firm's resources. In contrast to these paid media, new media (in which consumers create content and this content is exchanged between other consumers and potentially between manufacturers) are primarily available for free. This question becomes even more salient when new product launches are involved, as firms typically allocate approximately half of their marketing budgets to support new products. One of the most prevalent forms of new media is blogging. Therefore, we assemble a unique data set from Japan that contains market outcomes (sales) for new products, new media (blogs) and traditional media (TV advertising) in the movie category. We specify a simultaneous equation log-linear system for market outcomes and the volume of blogs. Our results suggest that new and traditional media act synergistically, that pre-launch TV advertising spurs blogging activity but becomes less effective during the post-launch period and that market outcomes have an effect on blogging quantity. We find detailed support for some of these results via a unique and novel text-mining analysis and replicate our findings for a second product category, cellular phone service. We also discuss the managerial implications of our findings. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Social Media Influencers (SMIs) are micro-celebrities with large followings on social media platforms who engage consumers and hold the potential to promote customer-brand relationships across different product categories. SMIs have an existing relationship of trust with consumers, and consumers seek out the content created by SMIs for valuable information and advice. This study explores the process of brand engagement between consumers and brands in the digital content marketing environment, specifically examining the research question: Do SMIs act as a route to brand engagement for their followers? The context for this study is the beauty community on YouTube; over 60,000 user comments were analyzed through automated text analysis. This study is among the first to provide empirical evidence that SMIs do act as a route to brand engagement through the three dimensions of cognitive processing, affection and activation.
The study tested a celebrity endorsement model to investigate the direct and indirect influences of celebrity attachment on brand loyalty across two culturally distinct countries: The United Kingdom and Turkiye. The survey was completed by 626 respondents and the data were analyzed using structural equation modeling. The findings show that celebrity attachment positively influences actual self-congruence, ideal self-congruence, brand quality, and brand attachment. Brand attachment mediates the effect of celebrity attachment on brand loyalty. Furthermore, the effectiveness of the celebrity endorsement process differs between British and Turkish consumers. Our research complements the meaning transfer model as it confirms that the celebrity endorsement process is influenced by two attachment objects: celebrities and brands. A follow-up study with text mining analysis of the consumer comments about the product reviews posted by social media influencers (SMIs) supported the validity of the celebrity endorsement model. Practitioners should consider the consumer's emotional and cognitive bonding with celebrities, and brands to enhance the effectiveness of the celebrity endorsement process. The more consumers are attached to celebrities (or SMIs) and brands, the more loyal they become to the latter.
We extend latent Dirichlet allocation by introducing a topic model, hierarchically dual latent Dirichlet allocation (HDLDA), for contexts in which one type of document (e.g., search queries) are semantically related to another type of document (e.g., search results). In the context of online search engines, HDLDA identifies not only topics in short search queries and web pages, but also how the topics in search queries relate to the topics in the corresponding top search results. The output of HDLDA provides a basis for estimating consumers' content preferences on the fly from their search queries given a set of assumptions on how consumers translate their content preferences into search queries. We apply HDLDA and explore its use in the estimation of content preferences in two studies. The first is a lab experiment in which we manipulate participants' content preferences and observe the queries they formulate and their browsing behavior across different product categories. The second is a field study, which allows us to explore whether the content preferences estimated based on HDLDA may be used to explain and predict click-through rates in online search advertising.
In responding to customer questions or complaints, shouldmarketing agents linguistically put the customer first by using certain personal pronouns? Customer orientation theory, managerial literature, and surveys of managers, customer service representatives, and consumers suggest that firm agents should emphasize how we (the firm) serve you (the customer), while de-emphasizing I (the agent) in these customer-firm interactions. The authors find evidence of this language pattern in use at over 40 firms. However, they theorize and demonstrate that these personal pronoun emphases are often suboptimal. Five studies using lab experiments and field data reveal that firm agents who refer to themselves using I rather than we pronouns increase customers' perceptions that the agent feels and acts on their behalf. In turn, these positive perceptions of empathy and agency lead to increased customer satisfaction, purchase intentions, and purchase behavior. Furthermore, the authors find that customer-referencing you pronouns have little impact on these outcomes and can sometimes have negative consequences. These findings enhance understanding of how, when, and why language use affects social perception and behavior and provide valuable insights for marketers.
Today, climate change due to global warming is a significant concern to all of us. India's rate of greenhouse gas emissions is increasing day by day, placing India in the top ten emitters in the world. Air pollution is one of the significant contributors to the greenhouse effect. Transportation contributes about 10% of the air pollution in India. The Indian government is taking steps to reduce air pollution by encouraging the use of electric vehicles. But, success depends on consumer's sentiment, perception and understanding towards Electric Vehicles (EV). This case study tried to capture the feeling, attitude, and emotions of Indian consumers' towards electric vehicles. The main objective of this study was to extract opinions valuable to prospective buyers (to know what is best for them), marketers (for determining what features should be advertised) and manufacturers (for deciding what features should be improved) using Deep Learning techniques (e.g Doc2Vec Algorithm, Recurrent Neural Network (RNN), Convolutional Neural Network (CNN)). Due to the very nature of social media data, big data platform was chosen to analyze the sentiment towards EV. Deep Learning based techniques were preferred over traditional machine learning algorithms (Support Vector Machine, Logistic regression and Decision tree, etc.) due to its superior text mining capabilities. Two years data (2016 to 2018) were collected from different social media platform for this case study. The results showed the efficiency of deep learning algorithms and found CNN yield better results in-compare to others. The proposed optimal model will help consumers, designers and manufacturers in their decision-making capabilities to choose, design and manufacture EV.
Online support groups offer social support and an outlet for expressing emotions when dealing with health-related challenges. This study examines whether automated text analysis of emotional expressions using Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count (LIWC) can identify emotions related to abstinence expressed in online support groups for quitting smoking, suggesting promise for offering targeted mood management to members. The emotional expressions in 1 month of posts by members of 36 online support groups were related to abstinence at month end. Using the available LIWC dictionary, posts were scored for overall positive emotions, overall negative emotions, anxiety, anger, sadness, and an upbeat emotional tone. Greater expressions of negative emotions, and specifically anxiety, related to nonabstinence, while a more upbeat emotional tone related to abstinence. The results indicate that automated text analysis can identify emotions expressed in online support groups for quitting smoking and enable targeted delivery of mood management to group members.
This research focuses on exploring the cognitive and affective perception of Hokkien ethnic Chinese born abroad visiting their hometown, Quanzhou, which is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The study examines the interplay between the collective gaze, affective, and cognitive perception of diaspora visitors who visit Quanzhou to reclaim their cultural identity and explore new opportunities. The analysis was conducted using a combination of fuzzy set qualitative comparative analysis and natural language processing techniques for sentiment analysis, based on 44 tourist interviews and 10 local key informant interviews. The results suggest that the primary image formed after the visit has a significant effect on the affective image and the affective attribute has a significant impact on the collective gaze and overall perceived image of diaspora visitors. These findings have important implications for destination image marketing and the sustainability of diaspora tourism.
Purpose - As the retail banking institutions are becoming more customer centric, their focus on service quality is increasing. Established service quality frameworks such as SERVQUAL and SERVPERF have been applied in the banking sector. While these models are widely accepted, they are expensive because of the need for replication across bank branches. The purpose of this paper is to propose a novel, user friendly and cost effective approach by amalgamating the traditional concept of service quality in banks (marketing base) and sentiment analysis literature (information systems base). Design/methodology/approach - In this study, the main objective is to analyze user reviews to better understand the correlation between RATER dimension sentiment scores as independent variables and user overall rating (customer satisfaction) grouping in "good" and "bad" as dependent variable through development of authors' own logistic regression model using lexicon-based sentiment analysis. The model has been developed for three largest private banks in India pertaining to three banking product categories of loans, savings and current accounts and credit cards. Findings - The results show that the responsiveness and tangibles dimensions significantly impact the user evaluation rating. Even though the three largest private banks in India are concentrating on the tangibles dimension, not all of them are sufficiently focused on the responsiveness dimension. Additionally, customers looking for loan products are more susceptible to negative perceptions on service quality. Originality/value - This study has highlighted two types of scores whereby user provided overall evaluation scores help provide validation to the sentiment scores. The developed model can be used to assess performance of a bank in comparison to its peers and to generate in depth insights on point of parity (POP) and point of difference (POD) fronts.
Market intelligence is a cornerstone of the marketing concept and essential to market-focused strategic planning and implementation. Although the importance of market intelligence is widely accepted, how managers can ensure the organization-wide generation, dissemination, and responsiveness to market intelligence remains a persistent challenge. In this article, the authors investigate market intelligence dissemination practices and their resulting managerial responses. Using qualitative methods, the authors identify five market intelligence dissemination practices that either update and reinforce organization members' existing schemas (mental models) of the market or create new, shared schemas of the market. Specifically, they find that the creation, existence, or absence of organizationally shared market schemas is crucial in explaining the effectiveness of different market intelligence dissemination practices. Thus, in addition to being experts on market intelligence, intelligence directors must be authorities on organizational learning and ways to create shared meaning structures that enable disseminated intelligence to be understood and used within their organizations. The authors conclude with suggestions for practitioners on how to manage intelligence dissemination across their organizations more effectively and efficiently.
Accurate forecasting of sales/consumption is particularly important for marketing because this information can be used to adjust marketing budget allocations and overall marketing strategies. Recently, online social platforms have produced an unparalleled amount of data on consumer behavior. However, two challenges have limited the use of these data in obtaining meaningful business marketing insights. First, the data are typically in an unstructured format, such as texts, images, audio, and video. Second, the sheer volume of the data makes standard analysis procedures computationally unworkable. In this study, we combine methods from cloud computing, machine learning, and text mining to illustrate how online platform content, such as Twitter, can be effectively used for forecasting. We conduct our analysis on a significant volume of nearly two billion Tweets and 400 billion Wikipedia pages. Our main findings emphasize that, by contrast to basic surface-level measures such as the volume of or sentiments in Tweets, the information content of Tweets and their timeliness significantly improve forecasting accuracy. Our method endogenously summarizes the information in Tweets. The advantage of our method is that the classification of the Tweets is based on what is in the Tweets rather than preconceived topics that may not be relevant. We also find that, by contrast to Twitter, other online data (e.g., Google Trends, Wikipedia views, IMDB reviews, and Huffington Post news) are very weak predictors of TV show demand because users tweet about TV shows before, during, and after a TV show, whereas Google searches, Wikipedia views, IMDB reviews, and news posts typically lag behind the show.
Online social media drive the growth of unstructured text data. Many marketing applications require structuring this data at scales non-accessible to human coding, e.g., to detect communication shifts in sentiment or other researcher-defined content categories. Several methods have been proposed to automatically classify unstructured text. This paper compares the performance of ten such approaches (five lexicon-based, five machine learning algorithms) across 41 social media datasets covering major social media platforms, various sample sizes, and languages. So far, marketing research relies predominantly on support vector machines (SVM) and Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count (LIWC). Across all tasks we study, either random forest (RF) or naive Bayes (NB) performs best in terms of correctly uncovering human intuition. In particular, RF exhibits consistently high performance for three-class sentiment, NB for small samples sizes. SVM never outperform the remaining methods. All lexicon-based approaches, LIWC in particular, perform poorly compared with machine learning. In some applications, accuracies only slightly exceed chance. Since additional considerations of text classification choice are also in favor of NB and RF, our results suggest that marketing research can benefit from considering these alternatives.
The development of the Internet and mobile devices enabled the emergence of travel and hospitality review sites, leading to a large number of customer opinion posts. While such comments may influence future demand of the targeted hotels, they can also be used by hotel managers to improve customer experience. In this article, sentiment classification of an eco-hotel is assessed through a text mining approach using several different sources of customer reviews. The latent Dirichlet allocation modeling algorithm is applied to gather relevant topics that characterize a given hospitality issue by a sentiment. Several findings were unveiled including that hotel food generates ordinary positive sentiments, while hospitality generates both ordinary and strong positive feelings. Such results are valuable for hospitality management, validating the proposed approach.
Establishing the relation between online ratings and reviews provides a potentially inexpensive and effective way for restaurants to capture quality improvement hints from customers. To this end, this study proposes an integrated approach that leverages text mining and empirical modeling to quantitatively correlate ratings with reviews. From (a Chinese crowd-sourced online review community), 49,080 pairs of restaurant rating and review were examined, with high-frequency words, major topics, and subtopics identified. Multilinear regression was employed to screen out the most impactful factors that influence taste, environment, and service ratings. Managerially, the idea of triggering the synergistic benefit from customer ratings and reviews is referential for market practitioners both within and beyond the catering industry.
Prior research shows that positive online reviews are less valued than negative reviews. The authors argue that this is due to differences in causal attributions for positive versus negative information such that positive reviews tend to be relatively more attributed to the reviewer (vs. product experience) than negative reviews. The presence of temporal contiguity cues, which indicate that review writing closely follows consumption, reduces the relative extent to which positive reviews are attributed to the reviewer and mitigates the negativity bias. An examination of 65,531 Yelp.com restaurant reviews shows that review value is negatively related to review valence but that this negative relationship is absent for reviews that contain temporal contiguity cues. A series of lab studies replicates these findings and suggests that temporal contiguity cues enhance the value of a positive review and increase the likelihood of choosing a product with a positive review by changing reader beliefs about the cause of the review.
This article examines the ways in which sci-fi films help consumers understand the tradeoffs between personal privacy concerns and other societal concerns that arise due to new technologies. Drawing upon media priming theory, the authors present a conceptual framework and accompanying research questions that suggest how priming from a futuristic movie influences consumers sentiment toward technology and privacy, from its release date and throughout its availability on movie streaming services. Through a series of studies, including qualitative analysis and text-based sentiment analysis of reviews in the IMBD database, the authors provide evidence to support this theoretical conceptualization. The findings demonstrate that online reviews are useful as a data source to gauge emotional intensity and text analysis of science fiction film reviews provides a useful methodology for understanding consumer perceptions about the future. Science fiction movies may help consumers frame privacy-technology tradeoffs and take action to protect their privacy.
Marketers and researchers alike typically regard products as differentiated by quality (modeled via vertical differentiation) or taste (modeled via horizontal differentiation). This research examines consumer beliefs about product differentiation. For a wide variety of product pairs, different consumers hold divergent beliefs about whether each pair is a matter of quality (such that one product is objectively better) or taste (such that one product is a better match with their own personal preferences). These beliefs have meaningful consequences. When consumers believe their chosen products are objectively better rather than better matches with their preferences: (1) they are willing to pay more for the chosen product over the alternative; (2) they self-reference less when explaining their choices; and (3) they are more likely to make transitive inferences from choices across other consumers. Observing others' contradictory choices increases the likelihood of believing those products differ by taste rather than quality. Understanding consumer beliefs about product differentiation has implications for understanding consumer decision delegation and decisions that are made in group contexts and for strategic decisions including customer segmentation, product positioning, and pricing policies.
Much prior work illuminates how fans of a brand can contribute to the value enjoyed by other members of its audience, but little is known about any processes by which fans contribute to the dissipation of that audience. Using longitudinal data on America's Next Top Model, a serial brand, and conceptualizing brands as assemblages of heterogeneous components, this article examines how fans can contribute to the destabilization of a brand's identity and fuel the dissipation of audiences of which they have been members. This work suggests that explanations focusing on satiation, psychology, or semiotics are inadequate to account for dissipation in the audience for serial brands. Moreover, the perspective advanced here highlights how fans can create doppelganger brand images and contribute to the co-destruction of serial brands they have avidly followed.
Consumers are often frustrated by customer service. But could a simple shift in language help improve customer satisfaction? We suggest that linguistic concreteness-the tangibility, specificity, or imaginability of words employees use when speaking to customers-can shape consumer attitudes and behaviors. Five studies, including text analysis of over 1,000 real consumer-employee interactions in two different field contexts, demonstrate that customers are more satisfied, willing to purchase, and purchase more when employees speak to them concretely. This occurs because customers infer that employees who use more concrete language are listening (i.e., attending to and understanding their needs). These findings deepen understanding of how language shapes consumer behavior, reveal a psychological mechanism by which concreteness impacts person perception, and provide a straightforward way that managers could help enhance customer satisfaction.
We study how opinion leadership and social contagion within social networks affect the adoption of a new product. In contrast to earlier studies, we find evidence of contagion operating over network ties, even after controlling for marketing effort and arbitrary systemwide changes. More importantly, we also find that the amount of contagion is moderated by both the recipients' perception of their opinion leadership and the sources' volume of product usage. The other key finding is that sociometric and self-reported measures of leadership are weakly correlated and associated with different kinds of adoption-related behaviors, which suggests that they probably capture different constructs. We discuss the implications of these novel findings for diffusion theory and research and for marketing practice.
Purpose - Social media enables consumers to regularly express themselves in a variety of ways. Selfie-postings are the new tool for self-presentation, particularly among millennials. The purpose of this paper is to identify the motivations associated with selfie-postings among female millennials. Design/methodology/approach - The exploratory study consisted of 15 in-depth interviews with women who were 19-30 years of age. The analysis of data was facilitated by an iterative constant comparison method between data, emerging concepts and extant literature. Findings - Textual analysis reveals impression management to be pivotal in understanding the consumer selfie-posting process. Other sub-themes include happiness and physical appearance. In addition, self-esteem was revealed as a motivator and an outcome. Research limitations/implications - The study was limited to females who were 19-30 years of age. Future research should include males and a wider age group and focus on empirical testing of the identified themes. Practical implications - This research sheds light on the motivation and outcomes associated with selfie-postings. Implications for marketers and advertisers include a better understanding of how to engage consumers to post content in the form of selfies with brands and products. Originality/value - This paper fulfils an identified need to explore the growature in consumer behavior by identifying the motivations of selfie-postings. ing trend of selfie-postings and contributes to academic liter
The current study aims to explore brand authenticity (and the related constructs: the need for uniqueness and brand love) and consumer brand engagement in consumers' sentiments toward restaurants on online reviews. This research uses a text mining technique, applying sentiment analysis to the reviews. The data is retrieved from Yelp.com, and uses a randomly selected sample of 3,877 reviews of restaurants, from seven cities in the USA. This paper proposes a specific aggregated dictionary for brand authenticity, consumer brand engagement and related constructs, based on previously validated scales which contribute to perform a more multi-faceted analysis. The findings contribute to the marketing research by unfolding a high level of consumer-brand engagement and brand authenticity in online reviews, revealing that positive sentimental attachment toward a focal object in reviews is an essential source of information.
In this research, the authors jointly model the sentiment expressed in social media posts and the venue format to which it was posted as two interrelated processes in an effort to provide a measure of underlying brand sentiment. Using social media data from firms in two distinct industries, they allow the content of the post and the underlying sentiment toward the brand to affect both processes. The results show that the inferences marketing researchers obtain from monitoring social media are dependent on where they “listen” and that common approaches that either focus on a single social media venue or ignore differences across venues in aggregated data can lead to misleading brand sentiment metrics. The authors validate the approach by comparing their model-based measure of brand sentiment with performance measures obtained from external data sets (stock prices for both brands and an offline brand-tracking study for one brand). They find that their measure of sentiment serves as a leading indicator of the changes observed in these external data sources and outperforms other social media metrics currently used.
Gender disparity continues to permeate the advertising industry, with only 11% of creative directors in agencies being women. This study uses textual analysis to examine how Ad Age's Agency A-List annual award recipients' websites are encoded with messages of deep-level diversity attributes (e.g., attitude, beliefs, values) despite lacking surface-level diversity attributes (e.g., gender) among the agency winners' creative teams. Forty-eight agency webpages were analyzed using constant comparative data analysis, illuminating award-winning agencies' communicative processes to position their advertising teams' creativity on their websites. Themes included (a) positioning the team as experts; (b) championing disruption; (c) committing to change; and (d) seeking and rewarding grandiosity.
Online lifestyles have been shown to reflect and affect consumers' preferences across a wide range of online scenarios. In the context of e-commerce, it still remains unclear whether online lifestyles are practically influential in predicting consumers' purchasing preferences across different product categories, especially considering its potential influence over the widely used personality traits. In this study, we provide the first, to the best of our knowledge, quantitative demonstration of online lifestyles in predicting consumers' online purchasing preferences in e-commerce by using a data-driven approach. We first construct an online lifestyles lexicon including seven distinct dimensions using text mining approaches based on consumers' language use behaviors. We then incorporate the lexicon in a typical e-commerce recommender system to predict consumers' purchasing preferences. Experimental results on Amazon Review Dataset show that online lifestyles and all its subdimensions significantly improve preference predicting performance and outperform the widely used Big Five personality traits as a whole. In addition, product types significantly moderate the influence of online lifestyle on consumer preference. The strong empirical evidence indicates that the big e-commerce consumer data facilitates more specialized market psychographic segmentation, which advances data-driven marketing decision-making.
Online firestorms pose severe threats to online brand communities. Any negative electronic word of mouth (eWOM) has the potential to become an online firestorm, yet not every post does, so finding ways to detect and respond to negative eWOM constitutes a critical managerial priority. The authors develop a comprehensive framework that integrates different drivers of negative eWOM and the response approaches that firms use to engage in and disengage from online conversations with complaining customers. A text-mining study of negative eWOM demonstrates distinct impacts of high- and low-arousal emotions, structural tie strength, and linguistic style match (between sender and brand community) on firestorm potential. The firm's response must be tailored to the intensity of arousal in the negative eWOM to limit the virality of potential online firestorms. The impact of initiated firestorms can be mitigated by distinct firm responses over time, and the effectiveness of different disengagement approaches also varies with their timing. For managers, these insights provide guidance on how to detect and reduce the virality of online firestorms.
As crowdfunding has emerged as a popular source of funding for new ventures, budding entrepreneurs often struggle to deliver a convincing pitch to attract backers. We adopt an n-gram language model to analyze narratives of over 21,000 film projects from Kickstarter and find that the choice of words is critical to crowdfunding success. Using penalized logistic regression, we identify the relative power of phrases to predict funding outcome, resulting in a dramatic reduction in error rate. Consistent with the language expectancy theory, the linguistic analyses show that successful projects usually include words that reflect the credibility of project creators and meaningful social interactions, whereas failed projects exude negativism or uncertainty. While good word choices vary among movie genres, words of lower cognitive complexity dampen the chances of funding. These findings have broad implications for text analysis and natural language generation for persuasive marketing communications.
This study aimed to identify a new framework for consumer perceived value (CPV) and evaluate the dynamics of relative importance of different dimensions of CPV in the context of mobile marketing. Laddering interviews were conducted to capture the essence of CPVs, and then text-mining techniques were applied to extract key consumer values from the interviews. Six dimensions of CPV, namely, design, emotional, functional, monetary, guarantee, and social, were identified. The construct validity of these six dimensions was demonstrated through a rigorous sorting process. A best-worst scaling (BWS) survey was then implemented based on these six value dimensions to investigate consumers' preference for each dimension in three critical decision-making phases of mobile marketing campaigns. Statistical analysis of the BWS data showed that significant dynamic differences exist among these six value dimensions in each phase. Gender difference and consumer heterogeneity were also presented. Theoretical and managerial implications were discussed.
The authors document that approximately 5% of product reviews on a large private label retailer's website are submitted by customers with no record of ever purchasing the product they are reviewing. These reviews are significantly more negative than other reviews. They are also less likely to contain expressions describing the fit or feel of the items and more likely to contain linguistic cues associated with deception. More than 12,000 of the firm's best customers have written reviews without confirmed transactions. On average, these customers have each made more than 150 purchases from the firm. This makes it unlikely that the reviews were written by the employees or agents of a competitor and suggests that deceptive reviews may not be limited to the strategic actions of firms. Instead, the phenomenon may be far more prevalent, extending to individual customers who have no financial incentive to influence product ratings.
The COVID-19 pandemic has changed the lives of consumers in virtually every nation. Based upon the theory of psychological reactance and psychoevolutionary theory of emotion, we hypothesize how such lifestyle changes affect consumers perceiving and responding to companies' communications messages. The theories also suggest that consumers in different cultures may respond to COVID-19 differently. To test our hypotheses, we implemented a Python scraper to collect companies' Instagram posts pre- and during the COVID-19 lockdown. A machine learning algorithm was applied on the collected post photos to automatically identify certain photo characteristics, such as indoor versus outdoor, and with a single person versus many people; a text mining and sentiment analysis was implemented on the collected post captions to identify the salient emotion each caption exhibited, such as joy and anticipation. After that, we conducted a regression discontinuity analysis of photo characteristics or caption emotion on number of likes or comments to identify consumers' response change due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The estimation results supported our hypotheses and suggested tactics that could improve consumer communications effectiveness in this changed time. Viewing COVID-19 as an example of a current event in the ever-changing world, this paper suggests that such events could impact consumer response and behavior, and that companies' marketing and advertising strategies should be responsive to such events.
This article uses actual word-of-mouth (WOM) information to examine the dynamic patterns of WOM and how it helps explain box office revenue. The WOM data were collected from the Yahoo Movies Web site. The results show that WOM activities are the most active during a movie's prerelease and opening week and that movie audiences tend to hold relatively high expectations before release but become more critical in the opening week. More important, WOM information offers significant explanatory power for both aggregate and weekly box office revenue, especially in the early weeks after a movie opens. However, most of this explanatory power comes from the volume of WOM and not from its valence, as measured by the percentages of positive and negative messages.
The authors present empirical evidence that borrowers, consciously or not, leave traces of their intentions, circumstances, and personality traits in the text they write when applying for a loan. This textual information has a substantial and significant ability to predict whether borrowers will pay back the loan above and beyond the financial and demographic variables commonly used in models predicting default. The authors use text-mining and machine learning tools to automatically process and analyze the raw text in over 120,000 loan requests from Prosper, an online crowdfunding platform. Including in the predictive model the textual information in the loan significantly helps predict loan default and can have substantial financial implications. The authors find that loan requests written by defaulting borrowers are more likely to include words related to their family, mentions of God, the borrower's financial and general hardship, pleading lenders for help, and short-term-focused words. The authors further observe that defaulting loan requests are written in a manner consistent with the writing styles of extroverts and liars.
Today, consumer reviews are available on the Internet for a large number of product categories. The pros and cons expressed in this way uncover individually perceived strengths and weaknesses of the respective products, whereas the usually assigned product ratings represent their overall valuation. The key question at this point is how to turn the available plentitude of individual consumer opinions into aggregate consumer preferences, which can be used, for example, in product development or improvement processes. To solve this problem, an econometric framework is presented that can be applied to the mentioned type of data after having prepared it using natural language processing techniques. The suggested methodology enables the estimation of parameters, which allow inferences on the relative effect of product attributes and brand names on the overall evaluation of the products. Specifically, we discuss options for taking opinion heterogeneity into account. Both the practicability and the benefits of the suggested approach are demonstrated using product review data from the mobile phone market. This paper demonstrates that the review-based results compare very favorably with consumer preferences obtained through conjoint analysis techniques. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Purpose Practitioners need to understand how households will engage with connected-home technologies or risk the failure of these innovations. Current theory does not offer sufficient explanation for how households will engage; hence, this paper aims to address an important gap by examining how households set rules of engagement for connected-home technologies in the context of electricity use and monitoring. Design/methodology/approach A review of the extant psychology, technology and engagement literature is conducted and yields two research questions for exploration. The research questions are addressed via 43 in-depth household interviews. Analysis includes thematic analysis and computerized text analysis. Findings The results include a typology of technology engagement (the PIP typology) and discuss three main roles for technology in assisting households: intern, assistant and manager. Key contributions are as follows: consumers in household settings may experience compromised engagement where the perceived middle option is selected even if no-one selected that option originally; households open to using connected-home technologies are often taking advantage of their ability to delegate engagement to technology, and because consumers humanize technology, they also expect technology to follow social roles and boundaries. Originality/value This paper fulfills the need to understand how households will engage with connected-home technologies and the roles this technology may fulfill in the complex household service system.
In the digital era, online channels have become an inevitable part of healthcare services making healthcare/ health-product e-commerce an important area of study. However, the reflections of customer-satisfaction and their difference in various subgroups of this industry is still unexplored. Additionally, extant literature has majorly focused on consumer surveys for customer-satisfaction research ignoring the huge data available online. The current study fills these gaps. With 186,057 reviews on 619 e-commerce firms from 29 subcategories of healthcare/health-product industry posted in a review-website between 2008 and 2018, we used text-mining, machine-learning and econometric techniques to find which core and augmented service aspects and which emotions are more important in which service contexts in terms of reflecting and predicting customer satisfaction. Our study contributes towards the healthcare/health-product marketing and services literature in suggesting an automated and machine-learning-based methodology for insight generation. It also helps healthcare/ health-product e-commerce managers in better e-commerce service design and delivery.
Firms are increasingly engaging with customers on social media. Despite this heightened interest, guidance for effective engagement is lacking. In this study, we investigate customers' compliments and complaints and firms' service interventions on social media. We develop a dynamic choice model that explicitly accounts for the evolutions of both customers' voicing decisions and their relationships with the firm. Voices are driven by both the customers' underlying relationships and other factors such as redress seeking. We estimate the model using a unique data set of customer voices and service interventions on Twitter. We find that redress seeking is a major driver of customer complaints, and although service intervention improves relationships, it also encourages more complaints later. Because of this dual effect, firms are likely to underestimate the returns on service intervention if measured using only voices. Furthermore, we find an “error-correction” effect in certain situations, where customers compliment or complain when others voice the opposite opinions. Finally, we characterize the distinct voicing tendencies in different relationship states, and show that uncovering the underlying relationship states enables effective targeting. We are among the first to analyze individual customer level voice dynamics and to evaluate the effects of service intervention on social media.
Renewed interest in gender-sensitive studies focussing on fashion brands marketing communications across diverse cultures and generational cohorts of consumers has heightened the need for uniqueness when developing marketing strategies for fashion brands in both domestic and international markets. Following that, we surveyed 1,329 Sub-Saharan African female Instagram users to investigate the mediating role of consumer satisfaction concerning the relationships between perceived usefulness, enjoyment and intentions to follow and recommend brands' Instagram accounts and their invariance across three generations. We tested hypotheses using the Partial-Least-Squares Structural Equation Modelling and conducted emotion and sentiment analyses. We found that satisfaction fully translates the positivity of usefulness and enjoyments into higher intention to follow and recommend amongst the female Instagram users surveyed. Usefulness effects on satisfaction are more intense amongst Generation X. However, Generation Z developed a stronger intention to follow. Generations Y and Z are more likely to recommend than Generation X based on a positive experience. Satisfaction is a stronger transmitter of usefulness indirect effects onto following intentions amongst Generation X than its descendants who express intention to recommend due to indirect enjoyment effects conveyed via satisfaction. Finally, sentiment and emotion analyses of the users' comments were reported using a natural language-processing method. [GRAPHICS] .
Product reviews are becoming ubiquitous on the Web, representing a rich source of consumer information on a wide range of product categories (e.g., wines and hotels). Importantly, a product review reflects not only the perception and preference for a product, but also the acuity, bias, and writing style of the reviewer. This reviewer aspect has been overlooked in past studies that have drawn inferences about brands from online product reviews. Our framework combines ontology learning-based text mining and psychometric techniques to translate online product reviews into a product positioning map, while accounting for the idiosyncratic responses and writing styles of individual reviewers or a manageable number of reviewer groups (i.e., meta-reviewers). Our empirical illustrations using wine and hotel reviews demonstrate that a product review reveals information about the reviewer (for the wine example with a small number of expert reviewers) or the meta-reviewer (for the hotel example with an enormous number of reviewers reduced to a manageable number of meta-reviewers), as well as about the product under review. From a managerial perspective, product managers can use our framework focusing on meta-reviewers (e.g., traveler types and hotel reservation websites in our hotel example) as a way to obtain insights into their consumer segmentation strategy. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Purpose While the motivation for collecting art has received considerable attention in the literature, less is known about the characteristics of the typical art collector. This paper aims to explore these characteristics to develop a typology of art consumers using a mixed method approach over several studies. Design/methodology/approach This is achieved by analyzing qualitative data, gathered via semi-structured interviews of art collectors, and quantitatively by means of natural language processing analysis and automated text analysis and using correspondence analysis to analyze and present the results. Findings The study's findings reveal four distinct clusters of art collectors based on their Big Five personality traits, as well as uncovering insights into how these types talk about their possessions. Originality/value This paper demonstrates a unique mixed methods approach to analyzing unstructured qualitative data. It shows how text data can be used to identify measurable market segments for which targeted strategies can be developed.
The authors develop a multimodal social listening analysis (MSLA) approach as a framework for managers to understand how meaning is constructed in social media posts using both text and other media. The research adds to Al and text analysis approaches by considering the whole meaning of a post rather than an analysis of subsets of information in text and other media. The use of MSLA is validated across the social media platforms of Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. The findings show that MSLA helps (i) reveal structures in what appear to be unstructured multimodal posts; (ii) identify all the sentiment items in a post; (iii) identify implicit meanings, such as irony, humour and sarcasm; and (iv) further identify emotions and judgements in multimodal communication. Importantly, this paper explains how decisions and opinions are made online and how marketing strategies can be tailored towards meanings derived from multimodal communication in social media.
Opinions published online about a given experience are known to influence consumers' decisions. However, such opinions reflect different degrees of engagement which may affect the decisions in different forms. The aim of this study is to analyze the dimensions of online customer engagement and associated concepts (involvement, emotional states, experience and brand advocacy) in customers' online reviews through text-mining and sentiment analysis trends. The current study focuses on Yelp.com comments and includes a random sample of 15,000 unique reviews of restaurants, hotels and nightlife entertainment in eleven cities in the USA. A customer engagement dictionary is created, based on previously validated scales and extended using WordNet 2.1. The research findings reveal a high impact of the engagement cognitive processing dimension and hedonic experience on customers' review endeavor. Results further indicate that customers seem to be more engaged in positively advocating a company/brand than the contrary. Companies that listen to such feedback may be more able to align with consumers' expectations and, therefore, have a better competitive advantage in the market.
Drawing from literary criticism and institutional theory, this article analyzes the public discourse surrounding the Exxon Valdez spill of 1989 and BP Gulf Spill of 2010. While industrial accidents such as oil spills can erode consumers' trust in experts, a macrolevel analysis reveals that media coverage of such events ultimately contains the anxieties that are sparked by initial news coverage. The brand-centric disaster myths generated by media coverage frame public discourse in ways that help to reestablish consumers' trust in expert systems while also insulating corporations and governmental institutions from more systematic critiques. This analysis contributes to a macrolevel theorization of the institutional and ideological structures that shape consumers' risk perceptions and just world beliefs. It also extends prior accounts of cultural branding by identifying a set of ideological effects that operate in concert with the more commonly discussed therapeutic benefits afforded by marketplace myths.
As social media and virtual communities increase in popularity, the spread of word of mouth becomes easier, challenging firms to measure and manage the success of marketing initiatives in online community environments. This research examines how consumers react to firms' active participation in consumer-to-consumer conversations in an online community setting. The authors develop a tailored community-matched measure of consumer reaction (consumer sentiment) and analyze more than 115,000 consumer posts from ten online forums with active firm participation. The results indicate that consumers show diminishing returns to active firm engagement, which, at very high levels, can undermine consumer sentiment. Further subgroup analyses by conversation type indicate that these relationships hold for conversations that address consumers' functional needs but do not hold for conversations that address social needs. Finally, the results show diminishing returns to firm engagement for consumers primarily interested in product-related support but show no relationship for consumers primarily interested in inspiration and entertainment. These findings provide insights for marketing performance measurement and resource allocation in online communities.
Social tags are user-defined keywords associated with online content that reflect consumers' perceptions of various objects, including products and brands. This research presents a new approach for harvesting rich, qualitative information on brands from user-generated social tags. The authors first compare their proposed approach with conventional techniques such as brand concept maps and text mining. They highlight the added value of their approach that results from the unconstrained, open-ended, and synoptic nature of consumer-generated content contained within social tags. The authors then apply existing text-mining and data-reduction methods to analyze disaggregate-level social tagging data for marketing research and demonstrate how marketers can utilize the information in social tags by extracting key representative topics, monitoring common dynamic trends, and understanding heterogeneous perceptions of a brand.
With the challenges presented by new media, shifting media patterns, and divided consumer attention, the optimal integration of marketing communications takes on increasing importance. Drawing on a review of relevant academic research and guided by managerial priorities, the authors offer insights and advice as to how traditional and new media such as search, display, mobile, TV, and social media interact to affect consumer decision making. With an enhanced understanding of the consumer decision journey and how consumers process communications, the authors outline a comprehensive framework featuring two models designed to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of integrated marketing communication programs: a bottom-up communications matching model and a top-down communications optimization model. The authors conclude by suggesting important future research priorities.
Consumer-to-consumer brand message sharing is pivotal for effective social media marketing. Even as companies join social media conversations and generate millions of brand messages, it remains unclear what, how, and when brand messages stand out and prompt sharing by consumers. With a conceptual extension of speech act theory, this study offers a granular assessment of brands' message intentions (i.e., assertive, expressive, or directive) and the effects on consumer sharing. A text mining study of more than two years of Facebook posts and Twitter tweets by well-known consumer brands empirically demonstrates the impacts of distinct message intentions on consumers' message sharing. Specifically, the use of rhetorical styles (alliteration and repetitions) and cross-message compositions enhance consumer message sharing. As a further extension, an image-based study demonstrates that the presence of visuals, or so-called image acts, increases the ability to account for message sharing. The findings explicate brand message sharing by consumers and thus offer guidance to content managers for developing more effective conversational strategies in social media marketing.
Purpose This paper aims to illustrate the scope and challenges of using computer-aided content analysis in international marketing with the aim to capture consumer sentiments about COVID-19 from multi-lingual tweets. Design/methodology/approach The study is based on some 35 million original COVID-19-related tweets. The study methodology illustrates the use of supervised machine learning and artificial neural network techniques to conduct extensive information extraction. Findings The authors identified more than two million tweets from six countries and categorized them into PESTEL (i.e. Political, Economic, Social, Technological, Environmental and Legal) dimensions. The extracted consumer sentiments and associated emotions show substantial differences across countries. Our analyses highlight opportunities and challenges inherent in using multi-lingual online sentiment analysis in international marketing. Based on these insights, several future research directions are proposed. Originality/value First, the authors contribute to methodology development in international marketing by providing a use-case for computer-aided text mining in a multi-lingual context. Second, the authors add to the knowledge on differences in COVID-19-related consumer sentiments in different countries. Third, the authors provide avenues for future research on the analysis of unstructured multi-media posts.
This article aims to examine the underpinnings of satisfied and unsatisfied hotel customers. A text-mining approach was followed and online reviews by satisfied and dissatisfied customers were compared. Online reviews of 2,510 hotel guests were collected from TripAdvisor.com for Sarasota, Florida. The research findings revealed some common categories that are used in both positive and negative reviews, including place of business (e.g., hotel, restaurant, and club), room, furnishing, members, and sports. Study results further indicate that satisfied customers who are willing to recommend a hotel to others refer to intangible aspects of their hotel stay, such as staff members, more often than unsatisfied customers. On the other hand, dissatisfied customers mention more frequently the tangible aspects of the hotel stay, such as furnishing and finances. The study offers clear theoretical and managerial implications pertaining to understanding of satisfied and dissatisfied customers through the use of text mining and hotel ratings via review websites, social media, blogs, and other online platforms.
Images are an essential feature of many social networking services, such as Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter. Through brand-related images, consumers communicate about brands with each other and link the brand with rich contextual and consumption experiences. However, previous articles in marketing research have concentrated on deriving brand information from textual user-generated content and have largely not considered brand-related images. The analysis of brand-related images yields at least two challenges. First, the content displayed in images is heterogeneous, and second, images rarely show what users think and feel in or about the situations displayed. To meet these challenges, this article presents a two-step approach that involves collecting, labeling, clustering, aggregating, mapping, and analyzing brand-related user-generated content. The collected data are brand-related images, caption texts, and social tags posted on Instagram. Clustering images labeled via Google Cloud Vision API enabled to identify heterogeneous contents (e.g. products) and contexts (e.g. situations) that consumers create content about. Aggregating and mapping the textual information for the resulting image clusters in the form of associative networks empowers marketers to derive meaningful insights by inferring what consumers think and feel about their brand regarding different contents and contexts. (C) 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Managers are very interested in word-of-mouth communication because they believe that a product's success is related to the word of mouth that it generates. However, there are at least three significant challenges associated with measuring word of mouth. First, how does one gather the data? Because the information is exchanged in private conversations, direct observation traditionally has been difficult. Second, what aspect of these conversations should one measure? The third challenge comes from the fact that word of mouth is not exogenous. While the mapping from word of mouth to future sales is of great interest to the firm, we must also recognize that word of mouth is an outcome of past sales. Our primary objective is to address these challenges. As a context for our study, we have chosen new television (TV) shows during the 1999–2000 seasons. Our source of word-of-mouth conversations is Usenet, a collection of thousands of newsgroups with diverse topics. We find that online conversations may offer an easy and cost-effective opportunity to measure word of mouth. We show that a measure of the dispersion of conversations across communities has explanatory power in a dynamic model of TV ratings.
Words are part of almost every marketplace interaction. Online reviews, customer service calls, press releases, marketing communications, and other interactions create a wealth of textual data. But how can marketers best use such data? This article provides an overview of automated textual analysis and details how it can be used to generate marketing insights. The authors discuss how text reflects qualities of the text producer (and the context in which the text was produced) and impacts the audience or text recipient. Next, they discuss how text can be a powerful tool both for prediction and for understanding (i.e., insights). Then, the authors overview methodologies and metrics used in text analysis, providing a set of guidelines and procedures. Finally, they further highlight some common metrics and challenges and discuss how researchers can address issues of internal and external validity. They conclude with a discussion of potential areas for future work. Along the way, the authors note how textual analysis can unite the tribes of marketing. While most marketing problems are interdisciplinary, the field is often fragmented. By involving skills and ideas from each of the subareas of marketing, text analysis has the potential to help unite the field with a common set of tools and approaches.
Purpose The purpose of this study is twofold: first to demonstrate the application of an algorithm using contextual data to ascertain consumer personality traits; and second to explore the factors impacting the relationship between personality traits and advertisement persuasiveness. Design/methodology/approach A mixed-method approach that comprises two distinct yet complementary studies. The first uses quantitative methods and is based on a sample of 35,264 retail banking customers. Study 2 explores the findings that emerge from Study 1 using qualitative methods. Findings This paper finds that matching consumer personality with congruent advertising messages can lead to more effective consumer persuasion for most personality types. For consumers who exhibit neurotic personality traits, ameliorating perceived risks during purchasing and providing cues for social acceptance and goal attainment are important factors for advertising effectiveness. These factors also had a positive impact on the purchasing behaviour of extroverted consumers. Research limitations/implications This research focusses on understanding purchasing behaviour based on the most dominant personality trait. However, people are likely to exhibit a combination of most or even all of the Big Five personality traits. Practical implications Building on advances in natural language processing, enabling the identification of personality from language, this study demonstrates the possibility of influencing consumer behaviour by matching machine inferred personality to congruent persuasive advertising. It is one of the few studies to use contextual instead of social media data to capture individual personality. Such data serves to capture an authentic rather than contrived persona. Further, the study identifies the factors that may moderate this relationship and thereby provides an explanation of why some personality traits exhibit differences in purchasing behaviour from those that are anticipated by existing theory. Originality/value Although the idea that people are more likely to be responsive to advertising messages that are congruent with their personality type has already been successfully applied by advertising practitioners and documented by advertising scholars, this study extends existing research by identifying the factors that may moderate this relationship and thereby provides an explanation why some personality traits may exhibit differences in purchasing behaviour from those that are anticipated by existing theory.
Researchers, marketers, and consumers often believe that amplifying emotional content is impactful for the spread of information and purchasing decisions. However, there is little systematic investigation of when emotionality backfires. This research demonstrates when and why positive emotion can have enhancing versus backfiring effects. The authors find that reviewers who express greater positive emotion are indeed more positive toward their products, regardless of product type. In addition, expressed emotion for hedonic products has a positive impact when read by others, but this emotion backfires for utilitarian products, leading others to be less positive. The authors construct a conceptual model of these effects and show that violated expectations leading to decreased trust underlie this divergence between reviewers and readers. The effects occur in well-controlled experiments as well as computational linguistic analysis of 100,000 Amazon reviews across 500 products. Indeed, emotional reviews of utilitarian products are less likely to become popular and be displayed on the product's front page on Amazon. This work also introduces a novel tool for quantifying natural language in marketing: the Evaluative Lexicon.
Artificial intelligence (AI) has been widely applied in the advertising industry and attracted increasing attention from advertising scholars. However, the general public's perceptions of AI in advertising have been relatively neglected within the current literature. In this study, we analyzed people's posts on Twitter about AI in advertising using natural language processing. Specifically, we conducted topic modeling and sentiment analysis in the Python environment to identify the most salient topics on this issue and the sentiment of these topics. We discovered that what people posted on Twitter about AI in advertising fell into eight different clusters, with the most positive topic being AI-powered marketing tools and the most negative topic being AI's involvement in social media campaigns. We believe the findings of this study provide meaningful implications for academic research of AI advertising as well as the implementation of AI in advertising practice.
Purpose This paper aims to explore how chief executive officers (CEOs) and C-suite marketing executives (chief marketing officers [CMOs], chief customer officers [CCOs], chief branding officers [CBOs], etc.) talk about marketing concepts to better understand how marketers can more effectively articulate their value and increase their strategic influence within the firm. Design/methodology/approach Artificial intelligence-enabled computerized text analysis was used to identify and weight keywords from 266 CEO and C-suite marketing executive interviews. Custom marketing concept dictionaries were used to gauge overall marketing focus. Findings The analysis revealed opportunities for C-suite marketers to align specific marketing concepts with that of CEOs for increased strategic influence. Comparisons between C-suite marketing roles showed that CMOs are more focused on marketing strategy than specialized C-suite marketing positions, such as CCO and CBO. This points to a potential decrease in strategic impact for marketing executives dependent on the specialization of their position. Originality/value This paper represents the first use of artificial intelligence-enabled computerized text analysis to explore and compare executive speech acts to help increase marketing's influence in the firm. It is also the first to explore differences in marketing concept use between C-suite marketing roles.
Online shoppers are generally highly task-driven: they have a certain goal in mind, and they are looking for a product with features that are consistent with that goal. Unfortunately, finding a product with specific features is extremely time-consuming using the search functionality provided by existing web sites.In this paper, we present a new search system called Red Opal that enables users to locate products rapidly based on features. Our fully automatic system examines prior customer reviews, identifies product features, and scores each product on each feature. Red Opal uses these scores to determine which products to show when a user specifies a desired product feature. We evaluate our system on four dimensions: precision of feature extraction, efficiency of feature extraction, precision of product scores, and estimated time savings to customers. On each dimension, Red Opal performs better than a comparison system.
Firms traditionally rely on interviews and focus groups to identify customer needs for marketing strategy and product development. User-generated content (UGC) is a promising alternative source for identifying customer needs. However, established methods are neither efficient nor effective for large UGC corpora because much content is noninformative or repetitive. We propose a machine-learning approach to facilitate qualitative analysis by selecting content for efficient review. We use a convolutional neural network to filter out noninformative content and cluster dense sentence embeddings to avoid sampling repetitive content. We further address two key questions: Are UGC-based customer needs comparable to interview-based customer needs? Do the machine-learning methods improve customer-need identification? These comparisons are enabled by a custom data set of customer needs for oral care products identified by professional analysts using industry-standard experiential interviews. The analysts also coded 12,000 UGC sentences to identify which previously identified customer needs and/or new customer needs were articulated in each sentence. We show that (1) UGC is at least as valuable as a source of customer needs for product development, likely more valuable, compared with conventional methods, and (2) machine-learning methods improve efficiency of identifying customer needs from UGC (unique customer needs per unit of professional services cost). Data are available at https://doi.org/10.1287/mksc.2018.1123.
Purpose This paper aims to explore the relationships between website quality - through consumer-generated media stimuli-, emotions and consumer-brand engagement in online environments. Design/methodology/approach Two independent studies are conducted to examine these relationships. Study 1, based on a sample of 366 respondents, uses a structural equation modelling approach to test the research hypotheses. Study 2, based on 1,454 online consumer reviews, uses text-mining technique to examine further the relationship between emotions and consumer-brand engagement. Findings The findings show that all the consumer-generated media stimuli are positively related to the dimensions of emotions. However, only pleasure and arousal are positively related to the three variables of consumer-brand engagement. The findings also show cognitive processing as the strongest dimension of consumer-brand engagement providing positive sentiments towards brands. Practical implications The findings provide marketers with an understanding of how valid, useful and relevant content (i.e. information/content) creates a greater emotional connection and drive consumer-brand engagement. Marketers should be aware that consumer-generated media stimuli influence consumers' emotions and their reaction. Originality/value This study is one of the firsts to adapt and apply the S-O-R framework in explaining online consumer-brand engagement. This study also adds to the brand engagement literature as the first study that combines PLS-SEM approach with text-mining analysis to provide a better understanding of these relationships.
Sentiments from online word-of-mouth (WOM) are often controversial, since individuals have different preferences toward the same products. Past studies have focused on online WOM effects by measuring WOM volume and valence. However, few studies have investigated how the entropy of the review text sentiment influences the relationship between online WOM and product sales. As WOM valence and volume are usually provided at an aggregated level, consumers often do not have enough information to make a decision. In this case, reading online review text has become an important process for consumers to make purchasing decisions. However, when consumers encounter too many positive review texts, they may doubt the credibility of online WOM itself. Thus, we analyzed the entropy of the review text sentiments by conducting text-mining techniques. We classified review text sentiment into positive, negative, and neutral categories and created an entropy variable. A high level of entropy in review texts indicates that sentiment from review texts are equally distributed, but not biased, towards positive or negative sentiment. We estimated our research model with the entropy variable in a panel dataset for 204 movies over a half-year period. The results suggest that the entropy level in the review texts has a positive moderating impact on the relationship between WOM (e. g., valence and volume) and movie box office sales. The findings imply that deleting negative reviews to enhance product sales may not help online retailers or related parties. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This paper examines the informational role of product ratings. We build a theoretical model in which ratings can help consumers figure out how much they would enjoy the product. In our model, a high average rating indicates a high product quality, whereas a high variance of ratings is associated with a niche product, one that some consumers love and others hate. Based on its informational role, a higher variance would correspond to a higher subsequent demand if and only if the average rating is low. We find empirical evidence that is consistent with the theoretical predictions with book data from Amazon.com and BN.com. A higher standard deviation of ratings on Amazon improves a book's relative sales rank when the average rating is lower than 4.1 stars, which is true for 35% of all the books in our sample.
Online search advertising is an important market considering its size and future growth potential. However, many marketers have not systematically employed the online search keywords data in developing efficient online search advertisements. While previous studies showed that search keywords can deliver intent of online users, to our knowledge, there have been few studies that empirically predict and analyze the behaviour of online users by segmenting their search keywords. Given this gap, this research contributes to online search advertising literature by examining segment-specific differences in terms of online users' behaviours and advertisers' costs. By using text analysis, we classify 9,355 search keywords from a major online auto insurance company in South Korea into four segments. Our results demonstrate that each segment shows different click behaviours at each stage of the online purchase decision process. In particular, the segment typing a specific brand name shows significantly higher click through rate (CTR) and estimate-to-purchase conversion rate (EPR) than other segments. On the other hand, the two segments typing specific product name or typing price-related words, who might be under a higher competition, show significantly higher click-to-estimate conversion rate (CER) than other segments. We also found that costs are significantly different across the four segments and advertisers pay more for the two segments under a higher competition. Thus, marketers will be able to improve their targeting strategies or advertising efficiency by redistributing their advertising budget across segments identified by the search keywords.
Purpose The purpose of this study is to explore how vulnerable healthcare consumers foster social support through visual storytelling in social media in navigating healthcare consumption experiences. Design/methodology/approach This study employs a dual qualitative approach of visual and textual analysis of 180 Instagram posts from female breast cancer patients and survivors who use the platform to narrate their healthcare consumption experiences. Findings This study demonstrates how visual storytelling on social media normalises hidden aspects of healthcare consumption experiences through healthcare disclosures (procedural, corporeal, recovery), normalising practices (providing learning resources, cohering the illness experience, problematising mainstream recovery narratives) and enabling digital affordances, which in turn facilitates social support among vulnerable healthcare consumers. Practical implications - This study highlights the potential for visual storytelling on social media to address shortcomings in the healthcare service system and contribute to societal well-being through co-creative efforts that offer real-time and customised support for vulnerable healthcare consumers. Social implications - This research highlights that visual storytelling on image-based social media offers transformative possibilities for vulnerable healthcare consumers seeking social support in negotiating the challenges of their healthcare consumption experiences. Originality/value This study presents a framework of visual storytelling for vulnerable healthcare consumers on image-based social media. Our paper offers three key contributions: that visual storytelling fosters informational and companionship social support for vulnerable healthcare consumers; recognising this occurs through normalising hidden healthcare consumption experiences; and identifying healthcare disclosures, normalising practices and enabling digital affordances as fundamental to this process.
We study the impact of a mandated increase in minimum wages on consumer perceptions of multiple dimensions of service quality in the restaurant industry. When faced with higher minimum wages, firms might reduce the number of employees, resulting in poorer consumer service. Alternatively, higher-paid workers might be more motivated to improve consumer service. Using a combination of human annotation and several transformer models, we estimate the incidence of discussion of several service quality attributes (and their valence) in a textual data set of 97,242 online reviews of 1,752 restaurants posted over two years. We exploit a natural experiment in the County of Santa Clara, California, wherein only the city of San Jose legislated a 25% minimum wage increase in 2013. By comparing restaurant reviews in San Jose with those of synthetic controls, we find an improvement in the perceived service quality of San Jose restaurants. Specifically, we find reduced negative discussion of the courtesy and friendliness of workers. This decrease is present in independent restaurants and not in chains. This finding appears to be consistent with agency theory-based predictions of greater incentives to improve service in independent restaurants. We discuss alternative mechanisms for our results. We also discuss implications for consumers, restaurants, and policy makers.
The World Wide Web contains a vast corpus of consumer-generated content that holds invaluable insights for improving the product and service offerings of firms. Yet the typical method for extracting diagnostic information from online content-text mining-has limitations. As a starting point, we propose analyzing a sample of comments before initiating text mining. Using a combination of real data and simulations, we demonstrate that a sampling procedure that selects respondents whose comments contain a large amount of information is superior to the two most popular sampling methods-simple random sampling and stratified random sampling-in gaining insights from the data. In addition, we derive a method that determines the probability of observing diagnostic information repeated a specific number of times in the population, which will enable managers to base sample size decisions on the trade-off between obtaining additional diagnostic information and the added expense of a larger sample. We provide an illustration of one of the methods using a real data set from a website containing qualitative comments about staying at a hotel and demonstrate how sampling qualitative comments can be a useful first step in text mining.
In recent years, the concept of sustainable consumption behavior (SCB) is largely introduced and changed continuously to be discussed with industries such as energy sector, agriculture, transportation, sharing economy, and tourism. However, the study of sustainable consumption behavior in the online education industry (SCBOEI) remains a research gap. Thus, this paper aims to identify the significance of sustainable consumption behavior and theoretically conceptualize SCBOEI. This study employs content and text analysis to reconceptualize the major theories that contribute to the research of SCB. The findings in this study show that SCBOEI is contributed of great significance to promote sustainable development. In addition, this study introduces a model of SCBOEI, in which the consumer value theory, social exchange theory, and planned behavior theory are integrated. Additionally, this paper suggests that value, environmental attitude, identity, consumer engagement, and contextual factors (government behavior, market conditions, and environmental education) are highly important to extend the research on SCBOEI. In conclusion, this study strongly recommends that SCB research shall be directed to the online education industry. Furthermore, future studies shall emphasize the empirical effects of psychological factors, activity factors, and contextual factors for SCBOEI to find the correlation.
The authors posit that in an initial exposure to a broadcast video, hearing different voices narrate (in succession) a persuasive message encourages consumers' attention and processing of the message, thereby facilitating persuasion; this is referred to as the voice numerosity effect. Across four studies (plus validation and replication studies)-including two large-scale, real-world data sets (with more than 11,000 crowdfunding videos and over 3.6 million customer transactions, and more than 1,600 video ads) and two controlled experiments (with over 1,800 participants)-the results provide support for the hypothesized effect. The effect (1) has consequential, economic implications in a real-world marketplace, (2) is more pronounced when the message is easier to comprehend, (3) is more pronounced when consumers have the capacity to process the ad message, and (4) is mediated by the favorability of consumers' cognitive responses. The authors demonstrate the use of machine learning, text mining, and natural language processing to process and analyze unstructured (multimedia) data. Theoretical and marketing implications are discussed.
We report the results of an experiment in which consumers were instructed to gather online information about one of five specific product topics by accessing either online discussions (i.e., Internet forums or bulletin boards) or marketer-generated online information (i.e., corporate webpages). At the end of a 12-week period, the consumers who gathered information from online discussions reported greater interest in the product topic than did those consumers who acquired information from the marketer-generated sources. We discuss the study's implications for better understanding word-of-mouth communication and for developing more successful consumer websites.
As consumers move through their decision journey, they adopt different goals (e.g., transactional vs. informational). In this research, the authors propose that consumer goals can be detected through textual analysis of online search queries and that both marketers and consumers can benefit when paid search results and advertisements match consumer search-related goals. In bridging construal level theory and textual analysis, the authors show that consumers at different stages of the decision journey tend to assume different levels of mental construal, or mindsets (i.e., abstract vs. concrete). They find evidence of a fluency-driven matching effect in online search such that when consumer mindsets are more abstract (more concrete), consumers generate textual search queries that use more abstract (more concrete) language. Furthermore, they are more likely to click on search engine results and ad content that matches their mindset, thereby experiencing more search satisfaction and perceiving greater goal progress. Six empirical studies, including a pilot study, a survey, three lab experiments, and a field experiment involving over 128,000 ad impressions provide support for this construal matching effect in online search.
This study aims to investigate the experiences of Chinese economy hotel guests by applying deep learning fine-grained sentiment analysis on 363,723 Chinese-text online reviews. Findings reveal that location is the domain that most of the positive sentiments are associated, followed by facilities, service, price, image, and reservation experience. Prominent features with negative sentiments include sound insulation, air conditioning, beddings, windows, toilets, TV sets, WiFi signals, towels, elevators, hair dryers, slippers, toilet bowls, return cash, invoices. Positive and negative sentiments are compared. This research offers an alternative approach and a more comprehensive understanding of the experiences and sentiments of Chinese economy hotel guests. Theoretical contributions and practical implications regarding economy hotel management are discussed.
Online social blogs have gained popularity recently. They provide an effective channel for word-of-mouth (WoM) marketing to promote products or service. In WoM marketing, an opinion leader, who is normally more interconnected and has a higher social standing, can deliver product information, provide recommendations, give personal comments, and supplement professional knowledge that help companies to promote their products. Many theories have been put forward about social networks, but few address the issue of opinion leader identification. This study proposes a framework to identify opinion leaders using the information retrieved from blog content, authors, readers, and their relationships, which we call BARR for short. We first build ontology for a marketing product and then collect parameters from BARR to identify “hot topics” related to the product. These hot topics are then associated with information disseminators, or opinion leaders. Marketers can use BARR to track blogs written by opinion leaders and identify their opinions to form effective marketing strategies.
This study explores key content and themes from online reviews to explain major service attributes of peer-to-peer (P2P) accommodation sought by guests. The results from lexical analyses indicate that attributes frequently mentioned in guest reviews are associated with location (proximity to point of interest and characteristics of neighborhood), host (service and hospitality), and property (facilities and atmosphere). Reviews focusing on location and feeling welcome are consistently linked with higher rating scores, including accuracy, cleanliness, check-in, communication, value, and overall ratings. This confirms that P2P accommodation appeals to consumers who are driven by experiential and social motivations. Marketing implications are provided.
Palm oil is the world most used vegetable oil and its use as food ingredient is criticized for creating environmental, socio-economic, and health sustainability challenges. In Europe, the debate on palm oil sustainability has strongly intensified in the latest years involving several agri-food chain actors and stakeholders. The research explores Twitter content of key palm oil agri-food chain actors on palm oil multiple sustainability dimensions, focusing on the European context. First, the study applied a qualitative deductive approach to categorize palm oil sustainability dimensions. Second, among the 463 palm oil agri-food chain companies identified, 198 have an active Twitter account, including world palm oil producers, European bakery and chocolate manufacturers, and European food retailers. One hundred seven accounts tweet on palm oil. Third, a term frequency analysis and an in-depth textual analysis of tweets on palm oil sustainability issues were carried out. Results confirms that all agri-food chain actors communicate about palm oil sustainability, adopting a multi-dimension outlook. Palm oil producers actively use Twitter to promote palm oil sustainability, whereas European manufacturers and retailers limit their activity to react to consumers' questioning. Whereas palm oil producers tend to shape consumers' opinion over the benefits and the opportunities of palm oil use, food manufacturers and retailers adopt a purely informative approach on sustainability certification, avoiding the engagement over sensitive issues. Health is the most mentioned sustainability dimension. The study also confirms differences between agri-food chain actors' marketing communication. Finally, the study confirms that, in the case of sensitive issues, as for palm oil sustainability, Twitter is as able to drive companies' communication.
In recent years, there has been significant interest in understanding users' online content consumption patterns. But the unstructured, high-dimensional, and dynamic nature of such data makes extracting valuable insights challenging. Here we propose a model that combines the simplicity of matrix factorization with the flexibility of neural networks to efficiently extract nonlinear patterns from massive text data collections relevant to consumers' online consumption patterns. Our model decomposes a user's content consumption journey into nonlinear user and content factors that are used to model their dynamic interests. This natural decomposition allows us to summarize each user's content consumption journey with a dynamic probabilistic weighting over a set of underlying content attributes. The model is fast to estimate, easy to interpret, and can harness external data sources as an empirical prior. These advantages make our method well suited to the challenges posed by modern data sets used by digital marketers. We use our model to understand the dynamic news consumption interests of Boston Globe readers over five years. Thorough qualitative studies, including a crowdsourced evaluation, highlight our model's ability to accurately identify nuanced and coherent consumption patterns. These results are supported by our model's superior and robust predictive performance over several competitive baseline methods.
The growth of the Internet has led to massive availability of online consumer reviews. So far, papers studying online reviews have mainly analysed how non-textual features, such as ratings and volume, influence different types of consumer behavior, such as information adoption decisions or product choices. However, little attention has been paid to examining the textual aspects of online reviews in order to study brand image and brand positioning. The text analysis of online reviews inevitably raises the concept of text mining; that is, the process of extracting useful and meaningful information from unstructured text. This research proposes an unified, structured and easy-to-implement procedure for the text analysis of online reviews with the ultimate goal of studying brand image and brand positioning. The text mining analysis is based on a lexicon-based approach, the Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count (Pennebaker et al., 2007), which provides the researcher with insights into emotional and psychological brand associations.
Purpose - The aim of this research is to theorize and demonstrate that analyzing consumers' text product reviews using text mining can enhance the explanatory power of a product sales model, particularly for hedonic products, which tend to generate emotional and subjective product evaluations. Previous research in this area has been more focused on utilitarian products. Design/methodology/approach - Our text clustering-based procedure segments text reviews into multiple clusters in association with consumers' numeric ratings to address consumer heterogeneity in taste preferences and quality valuations and the J-distribution of numeric product ratings. This approach is novel in terms of combining text clustering with numeric product ratings to address consumers' subjective product evaluations. Findings - Using the movie industry as our empirical application, we find that our approach of making use of product text reviews can improve the explanatory power and predictive validity of the box-office sales model. Research limitations/implications - Marketing scholars have actively investigated the impact of consumers' online product reviews on product sales, primarily focusing on consumers' numeric product ratings. Recently, studies have also examined user-generated content. Similarly, this study looks into users' textual product reviews to explain product sales. It remains to be seen how generalizable our empirical results are beyond our movie application. Practical implications - Whereas numeric ratings can indicate how much viewers liked products, consumers' reviews can convey why viewers liked or disliked them. Therefore, our review analysis can help marketers understand what factors make new products succeed or fail. Originality/value - Primarily our approach is suitable to products subjectively evaluated, mostly, hedonic products. In doing so, we consider consumer heterogeneity contained in reviews through our review clusters based on their divergent impacts on sales.
This article highlights how social media data and language analysis can help managers understand brand positioning and brand competitive spaces to enable them to make various strategic and tactical decisions about brands. The authors use the output of topic models at the brand level to evaluate similarities between brands and to identify potential cobrand partners. In addition to using average topic probabilities to assess brands' relationships to each other, they incorporate a differential language analysis framework, which implements scientific inference with multi-test-corrected hypothesis testing, to evaluate positive and negative topic correlates of brand names. The authors highlight the various applications of these approaches in decision making for brand management, including the assessment of brand positioning and future cobranding partnerships, design of marketing communication, identification of new product introductions, and identification of potential negative brand associations that can pose a threat to a brand's image. Moreover, they introduce a new metric, "temporal topic variability," that can serve as an early warning of future changes in consumer preference. The authors evaluate social media analytic contributions against offline survey data. They demonstrate their approach with a sample of 193 brands, representing a broad set of categories, and discuss its implications.
This article examines explanation type in online word of mouth (WOM), focusing on what individuals explain: their actions (“I chose this product because …”) or their reactions (“I love this product because …”). Results show that review writers explain their actions more than their reactions for utilitarian products, but they explain their reactions more than their actions for hedonic products. They do so to be helpful to review readers, who find explained actions more helpful for utilitarian products and explained reactions more helpful for hedonic products. Explained actions and reactions are differentially helpful across product type because they increase readers' ability to predict their attitude toward the reviewed product: explained actions increase attitude predictability for utilitarian products, whereas explained reactions increase attitude predictability for hedonic products. These increases in attitude predictability and review helpfulness ultimately increase readers' choice of the product in question. This article contributes to the explaining and the WOM literatures by focusing on what individuals explain, rather than on how they explain, by identifying product type as a novel moderator of what review writers explain (actions or reactions), and by examining when and why review readers prefer different types of explanations.
Customers increasingly use various social media to share their opinion about restaurants service quality. Big data collected from social media provides a data platform to improve the service quality of restaurants through customers' online reviews, where online reviews are a trustworthy and reliable source that helps consumers to evaluate food quality. Developing methods for effective evaluation of customer-generated reviews of restaurant services is important. This study develops a new method through effective learning techniques for customer segmentation and their preferences prediction in vegetarian friendly restaurants. The method is developed through text mining (Latent Dirichlet Allocation), cluster analysis (Self Organizing Map) and predictive learning technique (Classification and Regression Trees) to reveal the customer' satisfaction levels from the service quality in vegetarian friendly restaurants. Based on the obtained results of our experiments on the data vegetarian friendly restaurants in Bangkok, the models constructed by Classification and Regression Trees were able to give an accurate prediction of customers' preferences on the basis of restaurants' quality factors. The results showed that customers' online reviews analysis can be an effective way for customers segmentation to predict their preferences and help the restaurant managers to set priority instructions for service quality improvements.
Purpose Existing literature shows that marketing capabilities of new ventures are critical success factors affecting venture capital funding, startup performance and business failure. The purpose of this study is to investigate whether venture capitalists reward extensive marketing strategies in their startup valuation and whether the marketing mix planning and early strategies on customer orientation predict long-term development of startups. Design/methodology/approach To address these gaps, this study investigate 107 business plans of new ventures which received venture capital based on these planning documents. The authors use computer-aided text analysis and regression analyses. Findings This study's findings show that customer orientation has positive effects on new venture performance and intensive marketing mix planning increases the likelihood of survival. However, venture capitalists decrease their startup valuation when they read too much about customer orientation and operative marketing mix planning. Originality/value This study relies on unique internal documents and therefore provides valuable and new insights for research and practice. Further, this study investigate various short- and long-term effects from marketing and customer orientation for a startups' development.
This research provides an empirical test of the “Twitter effect,” which postulates that microblogging word of mouth (MWOM) shared through Twitter and similar services affects early product adoption behaviors by immediately disseminating consumers' post-purchase quality evaluations. This is a potentially crucial factor for the success of experiential media products and other products whose distribution strategy relies on a hyped release. Studying the four million MWOM messages sent via Twitter concerning 105 movies on their respective opening weekends, the authors find support for the Twitter effect and report evidence of a negativity bias. In a follow-up incident study of 600 Twitter users who decided not to see a movie based on negative MWOM, the authors shed additional light on the Twitter effect by investigating how consumers use MWOM information in their decision-making processes and describing MWOM's defining characteristics. They use these insights to position MWOM in the word-of-mouth landscape, to identify future word-of-mouth research opportunities based on this conceptual positioning, and to develop managerial implications.
Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to systematically review the concepts and theories underlying customer service experience (CSE) and its underlying five dimensions (physical, social, cognitive, affective and sensorial). In this research, the contribution of the sensorial dimension to CSE research is emphasized. Senses are especially important in forming perceptions within servicescapes that are typically rich in sensory stimuli. Design/methodology/approach - This study systematically identifies 258 articles published between 1994 and 2018 in services and marketing journals. The analysis uses a text mining approach with the Leximancer software to extract research concepts and their relationships. Findings - The results demonstrate a shift from CSE research focused on brands and products toward value and interaction, around three focal areas: service system architecture, with its value creation processes; servicescape, with an increasingly digital interaction interface and outcome measures, with a stronger focus on emotional and relational metrics. In CSE research, the physical, social and cognitive dimensions are mostly researched in the focal areas of servicescape and outcome measures. Although important in practice, the sensorial dimension is the least investigated CSE dimension in service marketing research. Text mining insights demonstrate rich opportunities for sensorial research, particularly in studies on servicescape. Practical implications - The synthesis will inform managers and service providers which elements of CSE are most relevant to customers when forming perceptions. These insights help service providers to control, manage and design (multi)-sensory stimuli that influence how customers will make sense of the servicescape. Originality/value - This research is one of the first studies to examine the conceptual structure of CSE with a text mining approach that systematically analyzes a large set of articles, therein reducing the potential for researchers' interpretative bias. The paper provides an assessment of the role of the largely neglected but crucial sensorial dimension, and offers future research suggestions into this emerging topic.
Many consumers base their purchase decisions on online consumer reviews. An overlooked feature of these texts is their narrativity: the extent to which they tell a story. The authors construct a new theory of narrativity to link the narrative content and discourse of consumer reviews to consumer behavior. They also develop from scratch a computerized technique that reliably determines the degree of narrativity of 190,461 verbatim, online consumer reviews and validate the automated text analysis with two controlled experiments. More transporting (i.e., engaging) and persuasive reviews have better-developed characters and events as well as more emotionally changing genres and dramatic event orders. This interdisciplinary, multimethod research should help future researchers (1) predict how narrativity affects consumers' narrative transportation and persuasion, (2) measure the narrativity of large digital corpora of textual data, and (3) understand how this important linguistic feature varies along a continuum.
Online chatter, or user-generated content, constitutes an excellent emerging source for marketers to mine meaning at a high temporal frequency. This article posits that this meaning consists of extracting the key latent dimensions of consumer satisfaction with quality and ascertaining the valence, labels, validity, importance, dynamics, and heterogeneity of those dimensions. The authors propose a unified framework for this purpose using unsupervised latent Dirichlet allocation. The sample of user-generated content consists of rich data on product reviews across 15 firms in five markets over four years. The results suggest that a few dimensions with good face validity and external validity are enough to capture quality. Dynamic analysis enables marketers to track dimensions' importance over time and allows for dynamic mapping of competitive brand positions on those dimensions over time. For vertically differentiated markets (e.g., mobile phones, computers), objective dimensions dominate and are similar across markets, heterogeneity is low across dimensions, and stability is high over time. For horizontally differentiated markets (e.g., shoes, toys), subjective dimensions dominate but vary across markets, heterogeneity is high across dimensions, and stability is low over time.
The purpose of this study is to contribute to the marketing literature and practice by describing a research methodology to identify latent dimensions of customer satisfaction in product reviews, and examining the relationship between these attributes and customer satisfaction. Previous research in product reviews has largely relied only on quantitative ratings, either stars or review score. Advanced techniques for text mining provide the opportunity to extract meaning from customer online reviews. By analyzing 51,110 online reviews for 1,610 restaurants via latent Dirichlet allocation, this study uncovers 30 latent dimensions that are determinants of customer satisfaction. Furthermore, this study developed measurements of sentiment and innovativeness as moderators of the effect of these latent attributes to satisfaction.
Interpersonal communications have long been recognized as an influential source of information for consumers. Internet-based media have facilitated information exchange among firms and consumers, as well as observability and measurement of such exchanges. However, much of the research addressing online communication focuses on ratings collected from online forums. In this paper, we look beyond ratings to a more comprehensive view of online communications. We consider the sales effect of the volume of positive, negative, and neutral online communications captured by Web crawler technology and classified by automated sentiment analysis. Our modeling approach captures two key features of our data, dynamics and endogeneity. In terms of dynamics, we model daily measures of online communications about a firm and its products as contributing to a latent demand-generating stock variable. To account for the endogeneity, we extend the latent instrumental variable technique to account for dynamic endogenous regressors. Our results demonstrate a significant effect of positive, negative, and neutral online communications on daily sales performance. Failure to account for endogeneity results in a severe attenuation of the estimated effects. From a managerial perspective, we demonstrate the importance of accounting for communication valence as well as the impact of shocks to positive, negative, and neutral online communications.
The concept of brand community has been used to understand how consumers create value around brands online. Recently consumer researchers have begun to debate the relevance of this concept for understanding brand-related communication on social media. Based on a data set of 8949 tweets about Louis Vuitton gathered on Italian Twitter in 2013, this article addresses these discussions by developing the alternative concept of brand publics that differ from brand communities in three important ways. First, brand publics are social formations that are not based on interaction but on a continuous focus of interest and mediation. Second, participation in brand publics is not structured by discussion or deliberation but by individual or collective affect. Third, in brand publics consumers do not develop a collective identity around the focal brand; rather the brand is valuable as a medium that can offer publicity to a multitude of diverse situations of identity. The conclusion suggests that brand publics might be part of a social media-based consumer culture where publicity rather than identity has become a core value.
The use of mobile applications (MA) and social media (SM) platforms is reshaping the access to the internet. This study aims to analyse if consumers prefer to use a MA/SM platform or a retail website to search for a product or service and what are the reasons supporting their choice. Data was collected through unstructured interviews applied to internet consumers. A total of 770 replies were returned with their perspective analysed through text mining to uncover hidden patterns of knowledge. The outcome revealed that the vital aspect that makes consumers prefer a retail website is due to service quality. The choice for MA/SM platforms is its system quality in the act of searching for a product or service online. The demographic analysis exposed that younger generations prefer MA/SM, suggesting a different future for retail websites.
Mobile payment systems offer enormous potential as alternative payment solutions. However, the diffusion of mobile payments over the years has been less than optimal despite the numerous studies that have explored the reasons for its adoption. Consequently, there is an increased interest in exploring alternative actions for promoting its diffusion, especially user recommendation of the technology. This is because positive recommendations can enormously influence the decisions of potential consumers to use the technology while negative recommendations can increase resistance to it. The few extant studies in this domain have followed the traditional survey approach with hypothetic-deductive reasoning, thus limiting an understanding of factors outside their conceptual models that could influence recommendations. To address this shortcoming, this study uses a qualitative text-mining approach that explores themes from user reviews of mobile payment applications (apps). Using 5955 reviews from 16 mobile payment apps hosted on the Google Play store, this study applied the latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA) text-mining method to extract themes from the reviews that help to explain why users provide positive or negative recommendations about mobile payment systems. A total of 13 themes (i.e. ease of use, usefulness, convenience, security, reliability, satisfaction, transaction speed, time-saving, customer support, output quality, perceived cost, usability and trust) were generated from the LDA model which provides both theoretical and practical insights for advancing mobile payments diffusion and research.
While Amazon's disruption of the retail market has been associated with significant changes in consumer behavior, empirical studies on how interacting with Amazon has changed customers' expectations toward other offline/online retailers remain scarce. Such Amazon-driven perceptions of service attributes are sometimes referred to as the 'Amazon effect'. After clarifying the meaning of the Amazon effect and reviewing the studies on consumer complaints online, this paper aims to identify key triggers for the Amazon effect from consumer comments on social media. Based on natural language processing techniques, a content and sentiment analysis of users' comments drawn from the Facebook pages of three leading consumer electronics retailers in Italy over a two-year span (2016-2018) was used to evaluate the dissatisfaction toward these retailers associated to Amazon-related service attributes. The findings show that there is a wide diffusion of consumer comments and service complaints related to the Amazon effect on consumer electronics retailers, especially regarding price, customer service, in-store staff, and post-purchase support. Compared with corresponding evaluations on the Italian Amazon website, the negative sentiments revealed in consumers' comments on Facebook suggest that the Amazon's service standards have raised consumer expectations and have made consumers less satisfied when they interact with other retailers. We argue the need for further research to better clarify Amazonification in terms of customer impatience and dissatisfaction in general, also going beyond price and logistics issues, which are usually considered as the main constitutive factors.
This paper proposes an innovative method for estimating brand association matching and strength. It is based on a dual analytical perspective as it compares consumer-perceived with company-defined brand associations, thereby filling a research gap in the offline and online brand studies. In order to build this method, we investigate online communities as authentic interactive environments by combining text-mining with Hybrid Log-Linear models. What emerges is an interdisciplinary method that contributes to extending the use of the user-generated content (UGC) for marketing purposes. Its application is useful for verifying the conditions for customer brand equity and more systematically controlling the adopted brand communications. The analysis also takes into consideration consumers who, after experiencing the virtual setting, have become free-brand tellers and real co-creators of brand meaning. In the study, we focus on online fashion communities as digital platforms where consumer interactions are particularly intensive, and the narratives are rich in brand-related perceptions.
Identifying the right influencers for brands is often the starting point for a successful influencer campaign. However, influencer identification is understudied, and most previous studies have only discussed visible characteristics of influencers and their social networks, overlooking content-based metrics. Combining interdisciplinary theories and techniques from marketing, linguistics, and computer science, we propose a data-driven automated text analysis framework to identify characteristics of effective influencers using influencer posts. Specifically, we propose a model that incorporates influencer personality traits captured by natural language processing, accounting for traditional covariates, such as network structure and follower engagement. In addition, we use a dataset that attributes influencer social media activities to customer purchases to address fake engagement and showcase our automated textual analysis. The proposed framework can help marketers develop influencer profiles and predict optimal influencers for their campaigns.
We scrutinize the direct and moderated impact of brands' support for Black Lives Matter (BLM) on consumer responses. Our empirical strategy exploits Blackout Tuesday as a natural experiment in which BLM support occurred on Instagram (treated platform) but not on Twitter (control platform) to perform a within-brand crossplatform difference-in-differences (DID) analysis. We also combine econometric models with machine learning techniques to analyze the unstructured data of the social media content. Based on a unique multiindustry, multiyear, and multiplatform data set of 435 major brands and 396,988 social media posts, we find a negative impact of BLM support on consumer responses, such as followers and likes. Furthermore, our analyses uncover a multifaceted set of heterogeneous DID effects across brands. (1) Although lone-wolf BLM support leads to negligible effects, large-scale BLM support from many brands can lead to strong negative effects (i.e., the bandwagon effect). (2) Posting self-promotional content exacerbates the negative effects of BLM support. (3) Historical prosocial posting on social media attenuates the negative effects. (4) Brands with socially oriented missions suffer less from the negative effects. (5) Customers' political affiliation also matters; the negative effects of BLM support are amplified/attenuated for brands with mostly Republican/Democratic customers. Additionally, (6) slacktivism (showing BLM support in words but without financial donations) can mitigate the negative effects for brands with mostly Republican consumers but amplify the negative effects for brands with mostly Democratic consumers. History: This paper was accepted through the Marketing Science: Frontiers review process. K. Sudhir served as the senior editor and Juanjuan Zhang served as associate editor for this article. Supplemental Material: The data files and online appendix are available at https://doi.org/10.1287/mksc.2022.1372.
W e present two studies that together test a fundamental yet rarely examined assumption underlying the contemporary appeal of authenticity-namely, that consumers assign higher value ratings to organizations regarded as authentic. Study 1 conducts content analysis of unsolicited online restaurant reviews entered voluntarily by consumers in three major U. S. metropolitan areas from October 2004 to October 2011; the data contain information from 1,271,796 reviews written by 252,359 unique reviewers of 18,869 restaurants. The findings show that consumers assign higher ratings to restaurants regarded as authentic, even after controlling for restaurant quality in several ways. In addition, we find that consumers perceive independent, family-owned, and specialist (single-category) restaurants as more authentic than they do chain, non-family-owned, and generalist (multiple-category) restaurants. Study 2 reinforces these findings using an experimental design in which participants were presented with photos and minimal descriptions of fictitious restaurants and then asked to evaluate the likely authenticity, quality, and overall value of the restaurants in a predetermined sequence. Central to both studies is an authenticity scale that was developed through the use of an online survey that ascertains the specific language used by individuals in referencing authenticity in the restaurant domain. Taken together, these studies demonstrate that authenticity generates higher consumer value ratings of organizations; the studies also identify certain types of organizations that are more likely to receive authenticity attributions by consumers.
Language saturates the marketplace. We use it to convey meaning and to spread information about products, services, and brands. Marketers use it to position and sell their products, and consumers use it to assess and evaluate them. Although language has long been a part of the lives of consumers, the recent emergence of behavioral traces left online has ushered forth a big data revolution, with incredible opportunities for researchers. Amazon, TripAdvisor, and Yelp alone are repositories for over half a billion reviews, and people send more than 500 million tweets on Twitter per day (Krikorian, 2013). Researchers have taken note. Consumer behavior research now routinely makes use of data that range from hundreds to millions of pieces of text. For example, researchers have used language to understand what is shared and spreads (Berger & Milkman, 2012), what makes for an impactful online review (Moore, 2015), how people attempt to persuade one another (Rocklage, Rucker, & Nordgren, 2018a), and even common themes present across consumer behavior research itself (Wang, Bendle, Mai, & Cotte, 2015). However, these opportunities also bring challenges. How do researchers quantify language in a sensible manner? How are these measures to be validated? Is one approach to linguistic analysis just as good as any other? When should researchers use one technique versus another? Indeed, despite the rapid growth of work utilizing language in the last 10 years, few resources exist to guide researchers on how to integrate language into their projects (but see Humphreys and Wang, 2018, for a recent discussion of automated text analysis). In this chapter, we offer an overview of key methods used to quantify language and their ability to offer insights into consumer behavior. Specifically, we overview three major approaches to text analysis: Manual coding, top-down dictionary-based approaches, and bottom-up data-driven approaches. We explain the basic logic behind each approach and its subdivisions, provide an introductory how-to for each approach, and conclude with a discussion of each approach's pros and cons. Table 21.1 provides a brief summary of the approaches explored in this chapter.
Purpose The purpose of this research is to investigate the use of Twitter in business as a medium for knowledge sharing and to crowdsource information to support innovation and enhance business relationships in the context of business-to-business (B2B) marketing. Design/methodology/approach This study uses a combination of methodologies for gathering data in 52 face-to-face interviews across five countries and the downloaded posts from each of the interviewees' Twitter accounts. The tweets were analysed using structural topic modelling (STM), and then compared to the interview data. This method enabled triangulation between stated use of Twitter and respondent's actual tweets. Findings The research confirmed that individuals used Twitter as a source of information, ideas, promotion and innovation within their industry. Twitter facilitates building relevant business relationships through the exchange of new, expert and high-quality information within like-minded communities in real time, between companies and with their suppliers, customers and also their peers. Research limitations/implications - As this study covered five countries, further comparative research on the use of Twitter in the B2B context is called for. Further investigation of the formalisation of social media strategies and return on investment for social media marketing efforts is also warranted. Practical implications - This research highlights the business relationship building capacity of Twitter as it enables customer and peer conversations that eventually support the development of product and service innovations. Twitter has the capacity for marketers to informand engage customers and peers in their networks on wider topics thereby building the brand of the individual users and their companies simultaneously. Originality/value This study focuses on interactions at the individual level illustrating that Twitter is used for both customer and peer interactions that can lead to the sourcing of ideas, knowledge and ultimately innovation. The study is novel in its methodological approach of combining structured interviews and text mining that found the topics of the interviewees' tweets aligned with their interview responses.
Destination image is a key factor for attracting tourists and wealth to destinations. With the spread of Web 2.0 and traveller-generated content, destination management organisations do not control the information regarding destination image formation through its cognitive, affective and conative components. The aim of the study is to analyse, using natural language processing techniques, whether the terrorist attack of August 2017 and the Catalan sovereignty process, which took place during the last quarter of 2017 in Barcelona, harmed the online destination image perceived and transmitted by tourists, through language recognition, frequency analysis and term categorisation of more than 150,000 online travel reviews, written in English, Spanish, French, German or Italian, posted on a shared-lodging platform. The findings show that visitors did not fear for their personal safety despite the seriousness and immense international media coverage of both events. The opinion of tourists, shared through online reviews, can help companies to improve the supply of goods and services.
The increasing amount of electronic word of mouth (eWOM) has significantly affected the way consumers make purchase decisions. Empirical studies have established an effect of eWOM on sales but disagree on which online platforms, products, and eWOM metrics moderate this effect. The authors conduct a meta-analysis of 1,532 effect sizes across 96 studies covering 40 platforms and 26 product categories. On average, eWOM is positively correlated with sales (.091), but its effectiveness differs across platform, product, and metric factors. For example, the effectiveness of eWOM on social media platforms is stronger when eWOM receivers can assess their own similarity to eWOM senders, whereas these homophily details do not influence the effectiveness of eWOM for e-commerce platforms. In addition, whereas eWOM has a stronger effect on sales for tangible goods new to the market, the product life cycle does not moderate the eWOM effectiveness for services. With respect to the eWOM metrics, eWOM volume has a stronger impact on sales than eWOM valence. In addition, negative eWOM does not always jeopardize sales, but high variability does.
Web 2.0 provides gathering places for Internet users in blogs, forums, and chat rooms. These gathering places leave footprints in the form of colossal amounts of data regarding consumers' thoughts, beliefs, experiences, and even interactions. In this paper, we propose an approach for firms to explore online user-generated content and listen to what customers write about their and their competitors' products. Our objective is to convert the user-generated content to market structures and competitive landscape insights. The difficulty in obtaining such market-structure insights from online user-generated content is that consumers' postings are often not easy to syndicate. To address these issues, we employ a text-mining approach and combine it with semantic network analysis tools. We demonstrate this approach using two cases-sedan cars and diabetes drugs-generating market-structure perceptual maps and meaningful insights without interviewing a single consumer. We compare a market structure based on user-generated content data with a market structure derived from more traditional sales and survey-based data to establish validity and highlight meaningful differences.
The United States opioid epidemic continues to bring suffering to individuals and families as well as a crushing economic toll to communities. Stakeholders require resources to combat the epidemic. Firms that manufacture, distribute, and market opioids are the primary defendants of lawsuits, which play out in public view. This study investigates the public statements made by firms and media coverage in opioid lawsuits through the lens of their word choices. We use text analysis to uncover the similarities and differences in the language used to discuss the opioid crisis. The results provide guidance for marketing, public relations, and communications.
Online user-generated content includes various forms of computer-mediated online reviews, ratings, and feedback. The impact of online consumer reviews has been widely studied particularly in e-commerce, online marketing, and consumer behavior domains using text-mining and sentiment analysis. Such studies often assume that consumer-submitted online reviews truly represent consumer experiences, but multiple studies on online social networks suggest otherwise. Drawing from the social network literature, this paper investigates the impact of peers on consumer willingness to write and submit online reviews. An empirical study using data from Yelp, a globally used online restaurant review Web site, shows that the number of friends and fans positively impacts the number of online consumer reviews written. Implications for research and practice are discussed.
The purpose of this article is to understand how media frames affect consumer judgments of legitimacy. Because frames exist on the sociocultural and individual level, our research takes a multimethod approach to this question. On the sociocultural level, we conduct a content analysis of operant media frames for discussing online gambling and perform an event analysis, finding that a shift in consumer judgments follows an abrupt shift in frame. Then, on the individual level, the causal mechanism for these shifts is investigated in an experimental setting using the Implicit Association Test (IAT). These experiments show that framing affects normative legitimacy judgments by changing implicit associations. Further, users and nonusers respond differently to frame elements, with users favoring an established frame and nonusers favoring a novel, legitimating frame. This suggests that media frames play a critical role in establishing legitimacy at the sociocultural level and that framing potentially bridges cognitive and normative legitimacy.
Many firms operate customer communities online. This is motivated by the belief that customers who join the community become more engaged with the firm and/or its products, and as a result, increase their economic activity with the firm. We describe this potential economic benefit as social dollars. This paper contributes evidence for the existence and source of social dollars using data from a multichannel entertainment products retailer that launched a customer community online. We find a significant increase in customer expenditures attributable to customers joining the firm's community. While self-selection is a concern with field data, we rule out multiple alternative explanations. Social dollars persist over the time period observed and arose primarily in the online channel. To assess the source of the social dollar, we hypothesize and test whether it is moderated by participation behaviors conceptually linked to common attributes of customer communities. Our results reveal that posters (versus lurkers) of community content and those with more (versus fewer) social ties in the community generated more (fewer) social dollars. We found a null effect for our measure of the informational advantage expected to accrue to products that differentially benefit from content posted by like-minded community members. This overall pattern of results suggests a stronger social than informational source of economic benefits for firm operators of customer communities. Several implications for firms considering investments in and/or managing online customer communities are discussed.
A series of controlled experiments examine how the strategy of incentivizing reviews influences consumers' expressions of positivity. Incentivized (vs. unincentivized) reviews contained a greater proportion of positive relative to negative emotion across a variety of product and service experiences (e.g., videos, service providers, consumer packaged goods companies). This effect occurred for both financial and nonfinancial incentives and when assessing review content across multiple natural language processing tools and human judgments. Incentives influence review content by modifying the experience of writing reviews. That is, when incentives are associated with review writing, they cause the positive affect that results from receiving an incentive to transfer to the review-writing experience, making review writing more enjoyable. In line with this process, the effect of an incentive on review positivity attenuates when incentives are weakly (vs. strongly) associated with review writing (i.e., incentive for participating in an experiment vs. writing a review) and when the incentive does not transfer positive affect (i.e., when an incentive is provided by a disliked company). By examining when incentives do (vs. do not) adjust the relative positivity of written reviews, this research offers theoretical insight into the literature on incentives, motivation, and word of mouth, with practical implications for managers.
The paper develops a research approach that combines digital ethnography with text mining to explore consumers' perception of a brand and the degree of alignment between brand identity and image. In particular, the paper investigates the alignment between the art museum's brand identity and the brand image emerging from visitors' narratives of their experience. The study adopts a mixed methodology based on netnography and text mining techniques. The analysis concerns an art museum's brand, with the case of the Opera del Duomo Museum in Florence. The methodological approach enables a combined investigation of user-generated content in online communities and the company's online brand communication, contributing to identifying branding actions that can be taken to increase the brand alignment. It also enables the measurement of the degree of alignment between museums and visitors among common brand themes. Specific indicators of alignment are provided. A key point is the replicability of the model in other contexts of analysis in which the content produced by consumers in online contexts are relevant and readily available, such as fashion or food.
The authors propose a new, exploratory approach for analyzing market structures that leverages two recent methodological advances in natural language processing and machine learning. They customize a neural network language model to derive latent product attributes by analyzing the co-occurrences of products in shopping baskets. Applying dimensionality reduction to the latent attributes yields a two-dimensional product map. This method is well-suited to retailers because it relies on data that are readily available from their checkout systems and facilitates their analyses of cross-category product complementarity, in addition to within-category substitution. The approach has high usability because it is automated, is scalable and does not require a priori assumptions. Its results are easy to interpret and update as new market basket data are collected. The authors validate their approach both by conducting an extensive simulation study and by comparing their results with those of state-of-the-art, econometric methods for modeling product relationships. The application of this approach using data collected at a leading German grocery retailer underlines its usefulness and provides novel findings that are relevant to assortment-related decisions.
There is growing interest in customer-based corporate valuation-that is, explicitly tying the value of a firm's customer base to its overall financial valuation using publicly disclosed data. While much progress has been made in building a well-validated customer-based valuation model for contractual (or subscription-based) firms, there has been little progress for noncontractual firms. Noncontractual businesses have more complex transactional patterns because customer churn is not observed, and customer purchase timing and spend amounts are more irregular. Furthermore, publicly disclosed data are aggregated over time and across customers, are often censored, and may vary from firm to firm, making it harder to estimate models for customer acquisition, ordering, and spend per order. The authors develop a general customer-based valuation methodology for noncontractual firms that accounts for these issues. They apply this methodology to publicly disclosed data from e-commerce retailers Overstock.com and Wayfair, provide valuation point estimates and valuation intervals for the firms, and compare the unit economics of newly acquired customers.
Market structure analysis is a basic pillar of marketing research. Classic challenges in marketing such as pricing, campaign management, brand positioning, and new product development are rooted in an analysis of product substitutes and complements inferred from market structure. In this article, the authors present a method to support the analysis and visualization of market structure by automatically eliciting product attributes and brand's relative positions from online customer reviews. First, the method uncovers attributes and attribute dimensions using the "voice of the consumer," as reflected in customer reviews, rather than that of manufacturers. Second, the approach runs automatically. Third, the process supports rather than supplants managerial judgment by reinforcing or augmenting attributes and dimensions found through traditional surveys and focus groups. The authors test the approach on six years of customer reviews for digital cameras during a period of rapid market evolution. They analyze and visualize results in several ways, including comparisons with expert buying guides, a laboratory survey, and correspondence analysis of automatically discovered product attributes. The authors evaluate managerial insights drawn from the analysis with respect to proprietary market research reports from the same period analyzing digital imaging products.
Online chatter is important because it is spontaneous, passionate, information rich, granular, and live. Thus, it can forewarn and be diagnostic about potential problems with automobile models, known as nameplates. The authors define perverse halo (or negative spillover) as the phenomenon whereby negative chatter about one nameplate increases negative chatter for another nameplate. The authors test the existence of such a perverse halo for 48 nameplates from four different brands during a series of automobile recalls. The analysis is by individual and panel vector autoregressive models. The study finds that perverse halo is extensive. It occurs for nameplates within the same brand across segments and across brands within segments. It is strongest between brands of the same country. Perverse halo is asymmetric, being stronger from a dominant brand to a less dominant brand than vice versa. Apology advertising about recalls has harmful effects on both the recalled brand and its rivals. Furthermore, these halo effects affect downstream performance metrics such as sales and stock market performance. Online chatter amplifies the negative effect of recalls on downstream sales by about 4.5 times.
This work describes and illustrates a free and easy-to-use online text-analysis tool for understanding how consumer word use varies across contexts. The tool, Wordify, uses randomized logistic regression (RLR) to identify the words that best discriminate texts drawn from different pre-classified corpora, such as posts written by men versus women, or texts containing mostly negative versus positive valence. We present illustrative examples to show how the tool can be used for such diverse purposes as (1) uncovering the distinctive vocabularies that consumers use when writing reviews on smartphones versus PCs, (2) discovering how the words used in Tweets differ between presumed supporters and opponents of a controversial ad, and (3) expanding the dictionaries of dictionary-based sentiment-measurement tools. We show empirically that Wordify's RLR algorithm performs better at discriminating vocabularies than support vector machines and chi-square selectors, while offering significant advantages in computing time. A discussion is also provided on the use of Wordify in conjunction with other text-analysis tools, such as probabilistic topic modeling and sentiment analysis, to gain more profound knowledge of the role of language in consumer behavior.
Marketing excellence is a foundational principle for the discipline that is gaining increasing attention among managers and investors. Despite this, the nature of marketing excellence and its effectiveness remain unclear. This research offers insight by addressing two questions: (1) How do managers understand and exercise marketing excellence? and (2) How do investors evaluate marketing excellence? Study 1 merges insights from 39 in-depth interviews with senior executives and secondary data from 150 firm strategies to find that marketing excellence is a strategy type focused on achieving organic growth by executing priorities related to the marketing ecosystem, end user, and marketing agility. Study 2 quantifies the impact of marketing excellence on firm value by using a machine learning algorithm and text analysis through an original dictionary to classify the text from 8,317 letters to shareholders in 1,727 U.S. firm annual reports. Calendar-time portfolio models reveal abnormal one-year returns of up to 8.58% for marketing excellence-returns that outpace those associated with market orientation and marketing capabilities. Findings offer guidance to managers, educators, and investors regarding how marketing excellence manifests-paving the way for the allocation of firm resources to ensure that marketing drives organic growth.
Prior research has focused on analyzing the content and intent of celebrity social media communications. By observing that the linguistic style of such celebrity communications drives consumer word of mouth, the main goal of the current research is to broaden this limited perspective. An automated text analysis of narrative/analytical, internally/externally focused, and negative/positive emotional styles in tweets by celebrity chefs, personal trainers, and fashion bloggers was conducted to this effect. The findings are threefold. First, across celebrity categories externally focused, narrative styles are more effective in terms of word of mouth. Second, emotional styles are not effective. Third, angry outbursts are an exception; they are effective drivers of word of mouth for personal trainers. As such, this research furthers scholarly and practitioner understanding of the state-the-art of celebrity social media communication: the effect of tweets' linguistic styles on consumer word of mouth. (C) 2019
As the Covid-19 pandemic unfolded, academics and practitioners alike wondered how and to what extent brands should adapt their advertising and communication efforts to remain resonant and to engage their audiences. Gathering and processing a unique data set composed of about 12,000 tweets of 76 leading brands associated with seven Italian industries, this research examines how rhetorical appeals that brands adopted evolved on Twitter during the pandemic. Theoretically, the research is grounded on an institutional logic perspective and resorts to the Aristotelian categories of logos, ethos, and pathos to make sense of the rhetorical appeals brands adopted. Methodologically, we relied on the most recent text-mining protocols in marketing studies. Our analyses outline that during the lockdown brands resorted to emotive appeals characterized by intense ethical and social overtones. Regarding consumers' response in their social media engagement, we find they appreciated this strategy the brands followed.
PurposeNegative online consumer reviews represent different forms of injustice. The effect of different types of injustice experienced in a service encounter on a brand is unknown. This study aims to investigate the effect and cause of different forms of injustice on brand love. It also explores which type of responses are more effective to mitigate their damaging effect. Design/methodology/approachOne text mining, using SAS enterprise miner, and three experimental studies were conducted. ANOVA and mediation and moderation analyses were conducted to test the hypotheses. FindingsNegative reviews specific to procedural injustice are more damaging than reviews specific to distributive or interactional injustice experienced in a service encounter. The underlying reason behind this differential effect is that perceived procedural injustice influences consumers more to punish the brand, resulting in a greater negative effect on brand love. To counter the damage, a sympathetic, rather than empathetic, brand response is more effective. Originality/valueThis study contributes to justice theory and brand love literature by providing evidence that procedural injustice triggers the highest level of willingness to punish and thus the lowest level of brand love. Consequently, willingness to punish, rather than emotion, is found to be the underlying reason behind procedural injustice having the strongest negative effect on brand love.
Shareholder complaints put pressure on publicly listed firms, yet firms rarely directly address the actual issues raised in these complaints. The authors examine whether firms respond in an alternative way by altering advertising investments in an effort to ward off the financial damage associated with shareholder complaints. By analyzing a unique data set of shareholder complaints submitted to S&P 1500 firms between 2001 and 2016, supplemented with qualitative interviews of executives of publicly listed firms, the authors document that firms increase advertising investments following shareholder complaints and that such an advertising investment response mitigates a postcomplaint decline in firm value. Furthermore, results suggest that firms are more likely to increase advertising investments when shareholder complaints are submitted by institutional investors, pertain to nonfinancial concerns, and relate to topics that receive high media attention. The findings provide new insights on how firms address stock market adversities with advertising investments and inform managers about the effectiveness of such a response.
Purpose - Social media platforms are changing the way consumers and celebrities engage. This research aims to better understand how and why consumers use social media to engage with celebrities, and identify the potential antecedents and outcomes, which may result from these online connections. Design/methodology/approach - Both qualitative (two focus groups) and quantitative (survey) methods were used to explore consumer engagement with celebrities on social media. A structural model from the survey data was developed and analyzed. Findings - Textual analysis of the focus groups revealed that consumers follow celebrities on social media to obtain career and personal information about the celebrity. Further, authenticity and emotional attachment were identified as favorable aspects of following celebrities on social media. An empirical study confirmed that the constructs of authenticity and emotional attachment positively influence the outcomes of word-of-mouth and purchase likelihood. Research limitations/implications - The study was limited by the self-identification of a favorite celebrity and social media site. Future research should include empirical testing of specific celebrities featured on a specific social media site and the development of the constructs identified in the focus groups. Practical implications - This research sheds light on the antecedents and outcomes associated with consumer-celebrity engagement on social media. The implications for marketers and advertisers include a better understanding of how celebrities transform themselves and engage with consumers on social media. Originality/value - This paper fulfills an identified need to study authenticity and emotional attachment as they relate to celebrities and consumers' engagements on social media.
The COVID-19 pandemic has triggered a set of government policies and supermarket regulations, which affects customers' grocery shopping behaviours. However, the specific impact of COVID-19 on retailers at the customer end has not yet been addressed. Using text-mining techniques (i.e., sentiment analysis, topic modelling) and time series analysis, we analyse 161,921 tweets from leading UK supermarkets during the first COVID-19 lockdown. The results show the causes of sentiment change in each time series and how customer perception changes ac-cording to supermarkets' response actions. Drawing on the social media crisis communication framework and Situational Crisis Communication theory, this study investigates whether responding to a crisis helps retail managers better understand their customers. The results uncover that customers experiencing certain social media interactions may evaluate attributes differently, resulting in varying levels of customer information collection, and grocery companies could benefit from engaging in social media crisis communication with cus-tomers. As new variants of COVID-19 keep appearing, emerging managerial problems put businesses at risk for the next crisis. Based on the results of text-mining analysis of consumer perceptions, this study identifies emerging topics in the UK grocery sector in the context of COVID-19 crisis communication and develop the sub -dimensions of service quality assessment into four categories: physical aspects, reliability, personal interaction, and policies. This study reveals how supermarkets could use social media data to better analyse customer behaviour during a pandemic and sustain competitiveness by upgrading their crisis strategies and service pro-vision. It also sheds light on how future researchers can leverage the power of social media data with multiple text-mining methodologies.
Smartphones have made it nearly effortless to share images of branded experiences. This research classifies social media brand imagery and studies user response. Aside from packshots (standalone product images), two types of brand-related selfie images appear online: consumer selfies (featuring brands and consumers' faces) and an emerging phenomenon the authors term brand selfies (invisible consumers holding a branded product). The authors use convolutional neural networks to identify these archetypes and train language models to infer social media response to more than a quarter-million brand-image posts (185 brands on Twitter and Instagram). They find that consumer-selfie images receive more sender engagement (i.e., likes and comments), whereas brand selfies result in more brand engagement, expressed by purchase intentions. These results cast doubt on whether conventional social media metrics are appropriate indicators of brand engagement. Results for display ads are consistent with this observation, with higher click-through rates for brand selfies than for consumer selfies. A controlled lab experiment suggests that self-reference is driving the differential response to selfie images. Collectively, these results demonstrate how (interpretable) machine learning helps extract marketing-relevant information from unstructured multimedia content and that selfie images are a matter of perspective in terms of actual brand engagement.
The authors propose a quantitative approach for describing entertainment products, in a way that allows for improving the predictive performance of consumer choice models for these products. Their approach is based on the media psychology literature, which suggests that people's consumption of entertainment products is influenced by the psychological themes featured in these products. They classify psychological themes on the basis of the character strengths taxonomy from the positive psychology literature (Peterson and Seligman 2004). They develop a natural language processing tool, guided latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA), that automatically extracts a set of features of entertainment products from their descriptions. Guided LDA is flexible enough to allow features to be informed by psychological themes while allowing other relevant dimensions to emerge. The authors apply this tool to movies and show that guided LDA features help better predict movie-watching behavior at the individual level. They find this result with both award-winning movies and blockbuster movies. They illustrate the potential of the proposed approach in pure content-based predictive models of consumer behavior, as well as in hybrid predictive models that combine content-based models with collaborative filtering. They also show that guided LDA can improve the performance of models that predict aggregate outcomes.
With the evolution of web 2.0 and social networks, customers and companies' online interaction is growing at a fast pace, containing valuable insights about consumers' expectations that should be monitored and explored in a day-to-day basis. However, such information is highly unstructured and difficult to analyze. There is an urgent need to set up transparent methods and processes to integrate such information in the tourism industry technological infrastructure, especially for small firms that are unable to pay for expensive services to monitor their online reputation. The current paper uses a text mining and sentimental analysis technique to structure online reviews and present them on a decision support system with two different dashboards to assist in decision-making. Such system may help managers develop new insights and strategies aligned with consumers' expectations in a much more flexible and sustainable pace.
As consumers are moving away from mindless consumerism, a mindful consumption literature has emerged that is based on Buddhist and psychological perspectives of mindfulness. While the idea of mindful consumption has great potential, there is little empirical research to date that comprehensively examines the consumer perspective on the role of mindfulness on consumption. To provide a grounded consumer perspective, the authors segment mindful consumption views from open-end text using a mixed method of clustering and text mining. By analyzing the segmentation structure, the authors discover various consumer views of mindful consumption, such as careful economic based consumption, monitoring activities of firms, and being informed about the impact of consumption choices. The authors compare the empirical results with the academic literature to provide directions for future research. (c) 2019 Australian and New Zealand Marketing Academy. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
As people become more aware of environmental problems, companies experience considerable pressure from customers to go green. Such a pressure has consequently driven companies to project environmental friendliness as an important part of their identity and create a green image of themselves in customers' minds. From this situation arises the issue of separation between the identity that companies want to convey to the public and the image perceived by public. To address this issue, this study analyzes the world 10 top automakers in 2018 regarding their greenness. The tweets posted from the official Twitter accounts of the study companies and those users' tweets posted about them are subjected to text mining. The results for 70% of companies show that there is a significant gap between their claims about their own green identity and how the public perceives such an image. Co-occurrence analysis of words contained in the tweets clarify that the company's approach to address green issues always differs from that of an individual. Finally, this study demonstrated an innovative application of the most commonly used text mining techniques to compare company and consumer perceptions. The findings can also serve as a basis for creating a dictionary of green issues.
Native advertising has attracted a lot of attention among academics interested in the ad format designed to mimic editorial content and provide consumers with often hard-to-find and detailed information. Yet its earlier predecessor, the advertorial, is used more frequently for information dissemination in the economic development and finance sectors. To better understand how advertorials are used today, we use computer-aided text analysis (CATA) to content analyze 843 advertorial pages used by 57 countries to promote themselves as ideal locations for foreign direct investment. Interview data from communication agency personnel involved in advertorial development provides subsequent insight. Our quantitative analysis finds limited differences in how countries promote themselves, but our interviews suggest that the communication agencies used to create the advertorials may explain the homogeneity in the data.
Using classifiers-lexical items that depict perceptual and conceptual properties of objects-six cross-cultural experiments were conducted In the People's Republic of China, Hong Kong, Japan, and the United States to investigate how structural features of languages affect mental structures and, in turn, consumer behavior. Experiments 1-4 show how classifiers affect the perceived similarity between objects, attribute accessibility, and concept organization. Experiment: 5 shows how classifier-based schemata result in inferences about product features. Experiment 6 provides evidence for the effect of classifiers, on judgment and choice via assimilation and contrast processes and affect transfer. We discuss our findings in light of the Whorfian hypothesis and argue for the incorporation of structural components of languages into models of consumer behavior.
Short-form video has attracted users' attention and been widely adopted for entertainment. Recently, short-form video has also been used for advertising. However, how short-form video for advertisement influences consumer engagement behavior remains unclear. This study aims to explore key features of short-form video advertise-ments that influence consumer engagement behavior. Through analyzing data obtained from social media platform TikTok, we discovered that four key features of short-form video-performance expectancy, enter-tainment, tie strength, and sales approach-are significantly related to consumer engagement behavior. In addition, the results showed that product type moderated the relationship of these effects on consumer engagement behavior. This study is one of the first to investigate the influence of short-form video advertisement features on consumer engagement behavior; thus, it contributes to the social media advertisement literature. It extends consumer engagement behavior research by applying a combination of uses and gratifications theory and signal theory. It also highlights the significance of product type in advertising literature. The use of big data and text analysis contributes from a methodological perspective to social media research. This study also provides practical and managerial implications for sellers and marketers on how to attract consumers to engage in videos and how to make data-driven decisions.
The authors address two significant challenges in using online text reviews to obtain fine-grained, attribute-level sentiment ratings. First, in contrast to methods that rely on word frequency, they develop a deep learning convolutional-long short-term memory hybrid model to account for language structure. The convolutional layer accounts for spatial structure (adjacent word groups or phrases), and long short-term memory accounts for the sequential structure of language (sentiment distributed and modified across nonadjacent phrases). Second, they address the problem of missing attributes in text when constructing attribute sentiment scores, as reviewers write about only a subset of attributes and remain silent on others. They develop a model-based imputation strategy using a structural model of heterogeneous rating behavior. Using Yelp restaurant review data, they show superior attribute sentiment scoring accuracy with their model. They identify three reviewer segments with different motivations: status seeking, altruism/want voice, and need to vent/praise. Surprisingly, attribute mentions in reviews are driven by the need to inform and vent/praise rather than by attribute importance. The heterogeneous model-based imputation performs better than other common imputations and, importantly, leads to managerially significant corrections in restaurant attribute ratings. More broadly, the results suggest that social science research should pay more attention to reducing measurement error in variables constructed from text.
Social media played a significant role in past Presidential elections, and it is very likely that this form of communication will continue to influence political campaigns. Can analytics uncover the linguistic plot arcs and resulting sentiment or emotion in political text? This paper examines how natural language processing (NLP) and data visualization tools and methods in analytics can play a key role in marketing political candidates. Using publicly available text messages, the authors employ NLP techniques to transform the text observations from the past campaigns of Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama, and Donald Trump into a linguistic corpus and story arc visualizations. The methodology includes the use of Syuzhet and Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) models. The resulting data visualizations reveal the story arcs associated with the candidate's communications, and they provide a means to analyze the unbiased political sentiment or hidden emotion in the text. In an analysis of the results, the authors found distinctly different story arcs and vocabulary usage among the three Presidential candidates. The contribution to the literature is a methodology for extracting the story and the resulting sentiment from text messages for marketing campaigns. The authors suggest that the techniques used in this paper can assist future research on marketing other products or services that utilize computer-mediated communications.
Taste has been conceptualized as a boundary-making mechanism, yet there is limited theory on how it enters into daily practice. In this article, the authors develop a practice-based framework of taste through qualitative and quantitative analysis of a popular home design blog, interviews with blog participants, and participant observation. First, a taste regime is defined as a discursively constructed normative system that orchestrates practice in an aesthetically oriented culture of consumption. Taste regimes are perpetuated by marketplace institutions such as magazines, websites, and transmedia brands. Second, the authors show how a taste regime regulates practice through continuous engagement. By integrating three dispersed practices-problematization, ritualization, and instrumentalization-a taste regime shapes preferences for objects, the doings performed with objects, and what meanings are associated with objects. This study demonstrates how aesthetics is linked to practical knowledge and becomes materialized through everyday consumption.
How consumers use review content has remained opaque due to the unstructured nature of text and the lack of review-reading behavior data. The authors overcome this challenge by applying deep learning-based natural language processing on data that tracks individual-level review reading, searching, and purchasing behaviors on an e-commerce site to investigate how consumers use review content. They extract quality and price content from 500,000 reviews of 600 product categories and achieve two objectives. First, the authors describe consumers' review-content-reading behaviors. Although consumers do not read review content all the time, they do rely on it for products that are expensive or of uncertain quality. Second, the authors quantify the causal impact of read-review content on sales by using supervised deep learning to tag six theory-driven content dimensions and applying a regression discontinuity in time design. They find that aesthetics and price content significantly increase conversion across almost all product categories. Review content has a higher impact on sales when the average rating is higher, ratings variance is lower, the market is more competitive or immature, or brand information is not accessible. A counterfactual simulation suggests that reordering reviews based on content can have the same effect as a 1.6% price cut for boosting conversion.
Word of mouth affects consumer behavior, but how does the language used in word of mouth shape that impact? Might certain types of consumers be more likely to use certain types of language, affecting whose words have more influence? Five studies, including textual analysis of more than 1,000 online reviews, demonstrate that compared to more implicit endorsements (e.g., I liked it,  I enjoyed it),explicit endorsements (e.g., I recommend it) are more persuasive and increase purchase intent. This occurs because explicit endorsers are perceived to like the product more and have more expertise. Looking at the endorsement language consumers actually use, however, shows that while consumer knowledge does affect endorsement style, its effect actually works in the opposite direction. Because novices are less aware that others have heterogeneous product preferences, they are more likely to use explicit endorsements. Consequently, the endorsement styles novices and experts tend to use may lead to greater persuasion by novices. These findings highlight the important role that language, and endorsement styles in particular, plays in shaping the effects of word of mouth.
Studies based on online textual data are increasingly used in the hospitality sector to gain better consumer insights. Using text mining of TripAdvisor reviews and mapping it to hard and soft attributes of SERVQUAL dimensions, this research attempts to identify service quality characteristics that influence the customers' online ratings of hotels. The moderating effects of the reviewer characteristics, namely (a) domestic vs foreign (b) novice vs experienced, (c) less vs more popular and (d) brief vs elaborate writing, on the relationship between quality attributes and online hotel ratings are also analyzed. The results imply that reviewers emphasize hard attributes of service quality in general, such as tangibles, reliability, and responsiveness, while providing online ratings to hotels. Furthermore, reviewer characteristics also influence the attributes emphasized in reviews and the resultant ratings. Finally, along with the theoretical contributions, managerial contributions, such as the usefulness of service planning outcomes, are discussed.
The amount of digital text-based consumer review data has increased dramatically and there exist many machine learning approaches for automated text-based sentiment analysis. Marketing researchers have employed various methods for analyzing text reviews but lack a comprehensive comparison of their performance to guide method selection in future applications. We focus on the fundamental relationship between a consumer's overall empirical evaluation, and the text-based explanation of their evaluation. We study the empirical tradeoff between predictive and diagnostic abilities, in applying various methods to estimate this fundamental relationship. We incorporate methods previously employed in the marketing literature, and methods that are so far less common in the marketing literature. For generalizability, we analyze 25,241 products in nine product categories, and 260,489 reviews across five review platforms. We find that neural network-based machine learning methods, in particular pre-trained versions, offer the most accurate predictions, while topic models such as Latent Dirichlet Allocation offer deeper diagnostics. However, neural network models are not suited for diagnostic purposes and topic models are ill equipped for making predictions. Consequently, future selection of methods to process text reviews is likely to be based on analysts' goals of prediction versus diagnostics. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Today's marketers are increasingly faced with the need to collect and interpret data to aid firm strategic decision making. At the same time, there has been an explosion of text-based data and numerous advances in big data that enable marketers to mine the collection and aggregation of text. However, for many marketers there is a need to better understand how textual data can go beyond mere descriptive metrics to instead help solve real marketing problems. With this paper, we take a step in this direction. We first review key concepts and terms that are relevant to understanding how text analysis operates, as well as a new development in custom dictionary cre-ation that expands the topics possible with text analysis. Next, we develop the FTTA grid, a new framework that enables text-derived metrics to inform actionable strategies for marketers. We present two real cases demon-strating how the FTTA grid can be employed in action. Finally, we discuss implications for both academics and marketing practitioners.
Consumer perceptions are important components of brand equity and therefore marketing strategy. Segmenting these perceptions into attributes such as eco-friendliness, nutrition, and luxury enable a fine-grained understanding of the brand's strengths and weaknesses. Traditional approaches towards monitoring such perceptions (e.g., surveys) are costly and time consuming, and their results may quickly become outdated. Extant data mining methods are unsuitable for this goal, and generally require extensive hand-annotated data or context customization, which leads to many of the same limitations as direct elicitation. Here, we investigate a novel, general, and fully automated method for inferring attribute-specific brand perception ratings by mining the brand's social connections on Twitter. Using a set of over 200 brands and three perceptual attributes, we compare the method's automatic ratings estimates with directly-elicited survey data, finding a consistently strong correlation. The approach provides a reliable, flexible, and scalable method for monitoring brand perceptions, and offers a foundation for future advances in understanding brand-consumer social media relationships. Data, as supplemental material, are available at http://dx.doi.org/10.1287/mksc.2015.0968.
In this research, the authors study the process by which social media posts are created and shared during live political debates. Using data from over 9.5 million tweets posted during and shortly after four key debates leading up to the 2016 U.S. presidential election, the authors test a series of hypotheses about how tweeting evolves over time during such events. They find that (1) as the debates progressed, the content of the "Twittersphere" became increasingly decoupled from the live event, and (2) the drivers of the success of tweets during the debates differed from the drivers of success observed after the debates. During the debates, users acted akin to narrators, posting shorter tweets that commented on unfolding events, with linguistic emotionality playing a limited role in sharing. However, when the debates were over, users acted more like interpreters, with successful posts being more elaborate and visually and emotionally rich accounts of the event. Evidence for the generalizability of the findings is provided by an analysis of Barack Obama's last State of the Union Address, where similar dynamics are observed.
Artificial intelligence (AI) is revolutionizing healthcare, but little is known about consumer receptivity to AI in medicine. Consumers are reluctant to utilize healthcare provided by AI in real and hypothetical choices, separate and joint evaluations. Consumers are less likely to utilize healthcare (study 1), exhibit lower reservation prices for healthcare (study 2), are less sensitive to differences in provider performance (studies 3A-3C), and derive negative utility if a provider is automated rather than human (study 4). Uniqueness neglect, a concern that AI providers are less able than human providers to account for consumers' unique characteristics and circumstances, drives consumer resistance to medical AI. Indeed, resistance to medical AI is stronger for consumers who perceive themselves to be more unique (study 5). Uniqueness neglect mediates resistance to medical AI (study 6), and is eliminated when AI provides care (a) that is framed as personalized (study 7), (b) to consumers other than the self (study 8), or (c) that only supports, rather than replaces, a decision made by a human healthcare provider (study 9). These findings make contributions to the psychology of automation and medical decision making, and suggest interventions to increase consumer acceptance of AI in medicine.
360i manages Internet paid-search advertisements on behalf of some of the largest advertisers in the world. This management requires 360i to develop advertising copy, allocate budgets, and generate bids for a second-price auction across millions of keywords, seasons, geographies, device types, and audience segments. To ensure that it captures the right click each time, 360i built a technology suite that is unique in the industry. This suite includes natural-language processing that combines keywords with the right advertising copy and landing pages to maximize relevance to the consumer. It offers advanced forecasting and optimization to allocate budgets where and when they are needed, and supports predictive bidding, which uses linguistic similarity as a proxy for performance correlation between keywords, to calculate accurate bids for keywords with sparse data. Finally, it delivers performance monitoring that unscrambles an opaque real-time auction to address campaign performance issues before they occur. The system has been a major contributor to 360i's winning multiple awards. Most importantly, the application of advanced operations research techniques has generated nearly $1 billion in incremental revenue for 360i's paid-search clients.
Sales, product design, and engineering teams benefit immensely from better understanding customer perspectives. How do customers combine a product's technical specifications (i.e., engineered attributes) to form abstract product benefits (i.e., meta-attributes)? To address this question, the authors use machine learning and natural language processing to develop a methodological framework that extracts a hierarchy of product attributes based on contextual information of how attributes are expressed in consumer reviews. The attribute hierarchy reveals linkages between engineered attributes and meta-attributes within a product category, enabling flexible sentiment analysis that can identify how consumers receive meta-attributes, and which engineered attributes are main drivers. The framework can guide managers to monitor only portions of review content that are relevant to specific attributes of interest. Moreover, managers can compare products within and between brands, where different names and attribute combinations are often associated with similar benefits. The authors apply the framework to the tablet computer category to generate dashboards and perceptual maps and provide validations of the attribute hierarchy using both primary and secondary data. Resultant insights allow the exploration of substantive questions, such as how Apple improved successive generations of iPads and why Hewlett-Packard and Toshiba discontinued their tablet product lines.
The increasing importance and proliferation of text data provide a unique opportunity and novel lens to study human communication across a myriad of business and marketing applications. For example, consumers compare and review products online, individuals interact with their voice assistants to search, shop, and express their needs, investors seek to extract signals from firms' press releases to improve their investment decisions, and firms analyze sales call transcripts to increase customer satisfaction and conversions. However, extracting meaningful information from unstructured text data is a nontrivial task. In this chapter, we review established natural language processing (NLP) methods for traditional tasks (e.g., LDA for topic modeling and lexicons for sentiment analysis and writing style extraction) and provide an outlook into the future of NLP in marketing, covering recent embedding-based approaches, pretrained language models, and transfer learning for novel tasks such as automated text generation and multi-modal representation learning. These emerging approaches allow the field to improve its ability to perform certain tasks that we have been using for more than a decade (e.g., text classification). But more importantly, they unlock entirely new types of tasks that bring about novel research opportunities (e.g., text summarization, and generative question answering). We conclude with a roadmap and research agenda for promising NLP applications in marketing and provide supplementary code examples to help interested scholars to explore opportunities related to NLP in marketing.
Threat appeals in social marketing have been widely researched regarding their effects in behaviour change. However, little is known about their emotional effects in individuals. Feelings generated by threat appeals have proved to be ambiguous. Considering that understanding the emotional effects of message frames has implications in long-term behaviour change, this paper aims at understanding the feelings generated by threat appeals, considering the inconsistent findings in the literature. The research analyses the feelings produced by threat appeals in two social networks - Facebook and YouTube. A sentiment analysis of forty non-governmental campaigns regarding anorexia nervosa awareness was conducted through two methodological forms. First, we have analysed the content of the comments made by users by text analysis; second, we have coded the emoji expressing feelings from the users in the same campaigns and have quantified their interactions. Results indicate that feelings generated by threat appeals regarding anorexia nervosa campaigns in social media may be both positive and negative, with a great expression of fear, sadness and empathy, corroborating the ambiguous findings. Positive feelings are most prominent in emoji and reveal support, compassion and admiration both for campaign messages and for people suffering from anorexia. Negative feelings, such as fear and sadness, arise especially as a consequence of awareness and concerns. The paper contributes to the discussion of this ambivalent topic of research and also experiments two different sentiment analysis techniques text and emoji analysis -, with different result outcomes.
Text-based electronic word-of-mouth (eWOM) communication has increasingly become an important channel for consumers to exchange information about products and services. How to effectively utilize the enormous amount of text information poses a great challenge to marketing researchers and practitioners. This study takes an initial step to investigate the validities and usefulness of text mining, a promising approach in generating valuable information from eWOM communication. Bilateral data were collected from both eWOM senders and readers via two web-based surveys. Results provide initial evidence for the validity and utility of text mining and demonstrate that the linguistic indicators generated by text analysis are predictive of eWOM communicators' attitudes toward a product or service. Text analysis indicators (e.g., Negations and Money) can explain additional variance in eWOM communicators' attitudes above and beyond the star ratings and may become a promising supplement to the widely used star ratings as indicators of eWOM valence.
Boycott movements are often one of the most effective anticonsumption tactics used against companies that engage in practices deemed unethical or unjustified. This research explores the motives, causes, and targets of consumer boycott behavior using content analysis of Twitter feeds. Additionally, human sentiment analysis is used to investigate the relationship between boycott motives and the emotional intensity of boycott messages. The findings from analyzing a sample of 1,422 tweets show that while human rights issues constitute the leading cause of boycotts, business strategy decisions and corporate failures are also frequent causes, with for-profit providers of products and services being the most common boycott targets. The results also indicate that although consumer boycott messages are more commonly motivated by instrumental motives, noninstrumental motives have higher emotional intensity. This study provides a deeper understanding of consumer boycott behavior, and offers implications for consumers and businesses.
In 2008, New York City mandated that all chain restaurants post calorie information on their menus. For managers of chain and standalone restaurants, as well as for policy makers, a pertinent goal might be to monitor the impact of this regulation on consumer conversations. We propose a scalable Bayesian topic model to measure and understand changes in consumer opinion about health (and other topics). We calibrate the model on 761,962 online reviews of restaurants posted over eight years. Our model allows managers to specify prior topics of interest such as health for a calorie posting regulation. It also allows the distribution of topic proportions within a review to be affected by its length, valence, and the experience level of its author. Using a difference-in-differences estimation approach, we isolate the potentially causal effect of the regulation on consumer opinion. Following the regulation, there was a statistically small but significant increase in the proportion of discussion of the health topic. This increase can be attributed largely to authors who did not post reviews before the regulation, suggesting that the regulation prompted several consumers to discuss health in online restaurant reviews.
While the wine sector is in the midst of significant transformations, there are new needs in terms of traceability and labeling. In that context, the Geowine geotraceability system offers the consumers the choice among a set of information going from the grape to the bottle through the producer, the climatic and geological conditions of the vineyard, the assembly, etc. That new labeling procedure must take into account the evolution of the institutional framework. Starting from the hypothesis that a rule is a framework for actions but also, at the same time, their result; and that it evolves depending on the representations, the interpretations and its implementations, we have listed the different relevant European and French texts. We used the Alceste textual analysis software as a tool in helping us identifying the meanings given to the institutional framework by all the different actors involved. Thus we were able to notably underline the French particularities, the stakes of CAP standardization and the consequences of the brands-labels debate that is still going on at the global level.
This article aims to specify the performance implications of neutral user-generated content (UGC) on product sales by differentiating mixed-neutral UGC, which contains an equal amount of positive and negative claims, from indifferent-neutral UGC, which includes neither positive nor negative claims. The authors propose that positive and negative UGC only provide opportunities for consumers to process product-related information, whereas both mixed- and indifferent-neutral UGC affect consumers' motivation and ability to process positive and negative UGC. The results of three studies using multiple measures (text and numerical UGC), contexts (automobiles, movies, and tablets), and methods (empirical and behavioral experiment) indicate contrasting premium and discount effects such that mixed-neutral UGC amplifies the effects of positive and negative UGC, whereas indifferent-neutral UGC attenuates them. Empirical evidence further indicates that ignoring mixed- or indifferent-neutral UGC leads to substantial under- or overestimates of the effects of positive and negative UGC. The effects of neutral UGC on product sales thus are not truly neutral, and the direction of the bias depends on both the type of UGC and the distribution of positive and negative UGC.
Consumers have an increasingly wide variety of options available to entertain themselves. This poses a challenge for content aggregators who want to effectively promote their video content online through original trailers of movies, sitcoms, and video games. Marketers are now trying to produce much shorter video clips to promote their content on a variety of digital channels. This research is the first to propose an approach to produce such clips and to study their effectiveness, focusing on comedy movies as an application. Web-based facial-expression tracking is used to study viewers' real-time emotional responses when watching comedy movie trailers online. These data are used to predict both viewers' intentions to watch the movie and the movie's box office success. The authors then propose an optimization procedure for cutting scenes from trailers to produce clips and test it in an online experiment and in a field experiment. The results provide evidence that the production of short clips using the proposed methodology can be an effective tool to market movies and other online content.
Designing marketing strategies with social media influencers are becoming increasingly relevant for setting political agendas. This study focuses on how two representative social influencers, Greta Thunberg and Bill Gates, engage in advising against climate change. The investigation uses 23,294 tweets posted by them or their followers citing them on climate change around the 25th edition of the United Nations Climate Change Conference. This study applies artificial intelligence and natural language processing to analyse the marketing mechanism of social influencers. We scrutinize the sentiment of the messages and then identify and analyse the different networks constructed around them to discern how pervasive a social influencer's message is. The results show that Thunberg and Gates follow different and unconnected strategies to deliver their messages to their followers.
Advances in natural language generation (NLG) have facilitated technologies such as digital voice assistants and chatbots. in this research, we demonstrate how NLG can support content marketing by using it to draft content for the landing page of a website in search engine optimization (SEO). Traditional SEO projects rely on hand-crafted content that is both time consuming and costly to produce. To address the costs associated with producing SEO content, we propose a semiautomated methodology using state-of-the-art NLG and demonstrate that the content-writing machine can create unique, human-like SEO content. As part of our research, we demonstrate that although the machine-generated content is designed to perform well in search engines, the role of the human editor remains essential. Comparing the resulting content with human refinement to traditional human-written SEO texts, we find that the revised, machine-generated texts are virtually indistinguishable from those created by SEO experts along a number of human perceptual dimensions. We conduct field experiments in two industries to demonstrate our approach and show that the resulting SEO content outperforms that created by human writers (including SEO experts) in search engine rankings. Additionally, we illustrate how our approach can substantially reduce the production costs associated with content marketing, increasing their return on investment.
The rise of unstructured data (UD), propelled by novel technologies, is reshaping markets and the management of marketing activities. Yet these increased data remain mostly untapped by many firms, suggesting the potential for further research developments. The integrative framework proposed in this study addresses the nature of UD and pursues theoretical richness and computational advancements by integrating insights from other disciplines. This article makes three main contributions to the literature by (1) offering a unifying definition and conceptualization of UD in marketing; (2) bridging disjoint literature with an organizing framework that synthesizes various subsets of UD relevant for marketing management through an integrative review; and (3) identifying substantive, computational, and theoretical gaps in extant literature and ways to leverage interdisciplinary knowledge to advance marketing research by applying UD analyses to underdeveloped areas.
How do changes in public discourse and regulatory structure affect the acceptance of a consumption practice? Previous research on legitimacy in consumer behavior has focused on the consumer reception of legitimizing discourse rather than on the historical process of legitimation itself. This study examines the influence of changes in the institutional environment over time on the meaning structures that influence consumer perception and practice. To study legitimation as a historical process, a discourse analysis of newspaper articles about casino gambling from 1980-2007 was conducted. Results show that the regulatory approval of gambling is accompanied by a shift in the semantic categories used to discuss casinos and that journalists play a role in shaping these categories. Further, journalists shape the meaning of a consumption practice in three ways: through selection, validation, and realization. Interpreted through the lens of institutional theory, these findings suggest that studies of legitimation should consider changes in public discourse and legal regulation in addition to consumer perceptions of legitimacy.
The big data of user-generated content (UGC) on social media are laden with potential value for brand managers. However, there are many obstacles to using big data to answer brand-management questions. This article presents a framework that automatically derives latent brand topics and classifies brand sentiments. It applies text mining with latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA) and sentiment analysis on 1.7 million unique tweets for 20 brands across five industries: fast food, department store, footwear, electronics, and telecommunications. The framework is used to explore four brand-related questions on Twitter. There are three main findings. First, product, service, and promotions are the dominant topics of interest when consumers interact with brands on Twitter. Second, consumer sentiments toward brands vary within and across industries. Third, separate company-specific analyses of positive and negative tweets generate a more accurate understanding of Twitter users' major brand topics and sentiments. Our findings provide brand managers with actionable insights in targeted advertising, social customer relationship management (CRM), and brand management.
Purpose The natural language processing (NLP) technique enables machines to understand human language. This paper seeks to harness its power to recognise the interaction between marketers and consumers. Hence, this study aims to enhance the conceptual and future development of deep learning in interactive marketing. Design/methodology/approach This study measures cognitive responses by using actual user postings. Following a typical NLP analysis pipeline with tailored neural network (NN) models, it presents a stylised quantitative method to manifest the underlying relation. Findings Based on consumer-generated content (CGC) and marketer-generated content (MGC) in the tourism industry, the results reveal that marketers and consumers interact in a subtle way. This study explores beyond simple positive and negative framing, and reveals that they do not resemble each other, not even in abstract form: CGC may complement MGC, but they are incongruent. It validates and supplements preceding findings in the framing effect literature and underpins some marketing wisdom in practice. Research limitations/implications This research inherits a fundamental limitation of NN model that result interpretability is low. Also, the study may capture the partial phenomenon exhibited by active reviewers; lurker-consumers may behave differently. Originality/value This research is among the first to explore the interactive aspect of the framing effect with state-of-the-art deep learning language model. It reveals research opportunities by using NLP-extracted latent features to assess textual opinions. It also demonstrates the accessibility of deep learning tools. Practitioners could use the described blueprint to foster their marketing initiatives.
Environmental communications often contain assertive commands, even though research in consumer behavior, psycholinguistics, and communications has repeatedly shown that gentler phrasing is more effective when seeking consumer compliance. This article shows that the persuasiveness of assertive language depends on the perceived importance of the issue at hand: Recipients respond better to pushy requests in domains that they view as important, but they need more suggestive appeals when they lack initial conviction. The authors examine this effect in three laboratory studies and one field experiment using Google Ad Words. Their findings refer to various environmental contexts (i.e., economizing water, recycling plastic containers, reducing air and sea pollution). The key implication of these findings is that issue importance needs to be carefully assessed (or affected) before the language of effective environmental campaigns can be selected.
The success of creative products depends on the felt experience of consumers. Capturing such consumer reactions requires the fusing of different types of experiential covariates and perceptual data in an integrated modeling framework. In this article, the authors develop a novel multimodal machine learning framework that combines multimedia data (e.g., metadata, acoustic features, user-generated textual data) in creative product settings and apply it to predict the success of musical albums and playlists. The authors estimate the proposed model on a unique data set collected using different online sources. The model integrates different types of nonparametrics to flexibly accommodate diverse types of effects. It uses penalized splines to capture the nonlinear impact of acoustic features and a supervised hierarchical Dirichlet process to represent crowd-sourced textual tags, and it captures dynamics via a state-space specification. The authors show the predictive superiority of the model with respect to several benchmarks. The results illuminate the dynamics of musical success over the past five decades. The authors then use the components of the model for marketing decisions such as forecasting the success of new albums, conducting album tuning and diagnostics, constructing playlists for different generations of music listeners, and providing contextual recommendations.
Purpose - This study initiated an investigation of how the Macau-Zhuhai tourism cooperated and discussed how Macau and Zhuhai could join hands to develop tourism in the region. The study demonstrated an approach for destination marketing organizations to explore online tourist-generated content and to understand tourists' perceptions of the destination image (DI). Design/methodology/approach - A total of 1,291,057 reviews (535,317 for Macau and 755,740 for Zhuhai) were collected, analyzed and examined to determine how the DI s of Macau and Zhuhai changed during the period of 2015-2019 based on tourist-generated content on travel websites (TripAdvisor, Ctrip.com and Qyer.com) through a text-mining approach. Findings - The result revealed that Macau and Zhuhai were in a hybrid of competition and collaboration on tourism DI s. First, Macau and Zhuhai competed in hotel and catering industry. Macau was appealing to international tourists and provided high-end and prestigious offerings; while Zhuhai was impressed by cost-effective accommodation and food. Second, Macau diversified industrial structure with diverse Tourism, Leisure and Recreation and Culture, History and Art more than Zhuhai did. Meanwhile, Macau should balance the different demands of international and Chinese tourists. Third, complementary potentials were found in natural resources, urbanization technology and tourism innovation and related projects. Practical implications - The research provides valuable insights for policymakers and industrial managers on their endeavors to develop DIs. Policymakers should be able to develop supportive mechanisms and tourism facilitators to promote industrial collaboration and mutual DIs. Managers could refer to the components in the changing DIs and identify the developmental gaps and cooperation potentials in their targeted areas. Originality/value - The research fulfills the gap in regional tourism studies on Macau, in which the evaluation on synergetic influence and neighbor effect from Zhuhai has been underexplored. Facilitated by up-to-date data mining techniques, the study contributes to both DI and coopetition literature in tourism marketing; and this should inspire further studies on the antecedences of DI changes, resolutions to the competing interests and DIs of different stakeholders in different forms of strategic cooperation in regional tourism. The employment of DIs is an explicit demonstration of tourists' immersion and values attached to the destination, providing effective cues on the status of coopetition.
We explore the use of big data tools to shed new light on the idea generation process, automatically read ideas to identify promising ones, and help people be more creative. The literature suggests that creativity results from the optimal balance between novelty and familiarity, which can be measured based on the combinations of words in an idea. We build semantic networks where nodes represent word stems in a particular idea generation topic, and edge weights capture the degree of novelty versus familiarity of word stem combinations (i.e., the weight of an edge that connects two word stems measures their scaled co-occurrence in the relevant language). Each idea contains a set of word stems, which form a semantic subnetwork. The edge weight distribution in that subnetwork reflects how the idea balances novelty with familiarity. Based on the beauty in averageness effect, we hypothesize that ideas with semantic subnetworks that have a more prototypical edge weight distribution are judged as more creative. We show this effect in eight studies involving over 4,000 ideas across multiple domains. Practically, we demonstrate how our research can be used to automatically identify promising ideas and recommend words to users on the fly to help them improve their ideas.
